New allegations are being levelled against suspended acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane, just as his disciplinary hearing is about to take place. Last week, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) sent a letter to the current acting police commissioner, Lieutenant-General Lesetja Mothiba, detailing claims that Phahlane and his wife, chairperson of Technology Management at Saps, were given cars by a Pretoria car dealer. The cars were allegedly paid for by a man who is a service provider for the SA Police Service (Saps), according to Ipid. However, sources close to the investigation questioned the timing of Ipid’s letter, given that Phahlane’s disciplinary hearing is taking place within two weeks. I only know of two cars, a Hilux bakkie and a Polo Vivo, which were sponsored to the family for 18 months by the dealership Phahlane, who is being investigated for alleged fraud and money laundering, denied either he or his wife, Beauty, had any knowledge of the seven vehicles he allegedly received from car dealer Durand Snyman in transactions allegedly facilitated by businessperson Keith Keating. Keating’s company, Forensic Data Analysts, is a service provider to the Saps. Later, however, Phahlane said: “I only know of two cars, a Hilux bakkie and a Polo Vivo, which were sponsored to the family for 18 months by the dealership. That 18 months expired in May and June and both are back with the owner, so that’s what I can confirm. Anything else about seven cars, I know nothing about. “Only two cars were sponsored and they are no longer with me. They have nothing to do with this allegation.” Keating denied being involved in any transactions with Phahlane. But Ipid said bank records showed he deposited R1.82 million into a Namibian bank account belonging to Snyman. Keating claimed yesterday the transaction had nothing to do with Snyman’s dealings with Phahlane. “We are refuting the allegations made against me in the strongest terms. The transaction in Namibia between myself and Snyman had nothing to do with Phahlane. It was a completely unrelated transaction.” They mentioned seven vehicles which I don’t know anything about Keating added that he had never been involved in any transactions related to Phahlane and had a purely professional relationship with him. Snyman did not respond to phone calls and messages sent to him by The Citizen. Phahlane said his 90-day suspension was in limbo as the investigation against him continued. “The suspension lapsed after 90 days. You are then supposed to go back. “Don’t ask me, ask the national commissioner. I am waiting for instructions from Saps.” Mothiba’s spokesperson, Brigadier Mashadi Selepe, said the commissioner had not received Ipid’s letter and was unaware a date had been set for Phahlane’s disciplinary hearing. In the letter, Ipid said Phahlane and his wife received vehicles allegedly sponsored by Snyman, a benefit that was neither due to them, nor declared. Another vehicle was allegedly given to Phahlane’s sister Josephine and a Colonel Potgieter. The letter stated the cars were bought by Snyman under the pseudonym John Doe. Ipid recommended Brigadier Beauty Phahlane and her colleague Colonel Potgieter be suspended so Ipid could continue the investigation. Khomotso Phahlane added: “Where is the evidence? I am supposed to own an R8 million house, I am supposed to own an R80 000 sound system that I bought, or was bought for me. “I am supposed to own vehicles everyone bought for me. They mentioned seven vehicles which I don’t know anything about.” For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za