Despite increasing outrage and renewed efforts from police and security companies, every other day seems to bring another story of rocks thrown at cars on the North Coast. Kirthan Pillay told the Courier he was driving north on the M4 at 4pm this afternoon (Friday) when he passed underneath the Boy’s Town bridge. “I was driving along listening to music when out of the corner of my eye I saw this rock flying at my windshield,” said the 19-year-old from Avondale Estates. “For a second I wanted to swerve to avoid it, but I would have ended up in the oncoming lane.” Pillay said as the rock hit his windshield, stories of the soccer ball sized rock that had been thrown at another vehicle recently flashed through his mind. “Luckily for me it was not as big as that. Also, I was lucky that just this morning my dad had a chat with me about driving slower so it did not hit me with as much force as it could have.” The rock that claimed the lives of 16-year-old Amina Haffajee and her brother Abdur (7). Pillay said he had been in contact with the police and would me going to Tongaat SAPS tomorrow to make a statement. Hesaid he did not see the person/persons who threw the rock at his vehicle. This is the latest in an ongoing string of similar incidents, the worst of which claimed the lives of a 16-year old girl and her young brother. Heeding the outraged community’s calls for bridges to be enclosed, KZN MEC for transport and Community Safety Mxolisi Kaunda called a high-level meeting last week to come up with a detailed strategy to curb the problem, while eThekweni deputy mayor Fawzia Peer proposed that both safety barriers over bridges and CCTV cameras be installed at bridges in hot spot areas. “We are investigating the possibility of installing safety barriers in the form of steel cages to prevent objects being thrown from overhead bridges,” Peer said. “This cannot be done overnight as normal council processes will have to take place and this will also depend on funding.” Umhlali SAPS spokesperson Vinny Pillay told the Courier it there were two clear types of rock throwing incidents. “There are criminals doing it with a clear motive in mind, and there are the kids,” he said. In both cases it is obviously a crime, but the first is far more likely to be life-threatening. Pillay said Umhlali and Tongaat SAPS were working together and had a vehicle patrolling the hot spots 24 hours a day. Witnesses of a similar attacks are urged to report any suspicious behaviour – contact Umhlali SAPS at 032 947 9900. Read original story on northcoastcourier.co.za