EFF leader Julius Malema has again reiterated his call for Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe to step down, giving the 93-year-old leader a few words to live by. Though Malema said he liked Mugabe for “his contribution towards the African revolution”, he said it was time for the president to bow out, as his overstay “was destroying his legacy”. According to Malema, though the Zimbabwean president had achieved much in his reign, he might have failed in creating leaders who would carry on his legacy and that was perhaps the reason he was holding on to power for long. “A good leader should have produced second and third layer leadership to continue the good fight against imperialism,” he said. Now it was time for Zimbabweans to remove their president and “reclaim” their country, he added. Speaking at a press conference earlier this year, Malema caught Mugabe’s attention after labelling “comrades in the Zanu-PF” cowards for failing to remove Mugabe. He said Mugabe could not even control a spade, and “must let go” as the president, who has been in power for nearly 37 years, was ruining his own legacy by “overstaying”. “We say this out of love,” said the EFF leader, adding Mugabe was not doing justice to the “African revolution project” by clinging to power for as long as possible. He added there were many capable leaders in the ruling Zanu-PF who could take over from “Grandpa” Mugabe. “Zimbabwe’s situation is bad. President Mugabe can’t even control a spade. That’s how old he is. He’s no longer capable of discharging his responsibilities. We don’t hate the man. They can respond and insult us. “They are a group of cowards, those comrades in Zanu-PF. To be scared to say to an old man like president Mugabe, ‘Please, with due respect, let go!’ “President Mugabe must let go! The legacy of the land question … we will carry it. We are following in his footsteps. We are proud of the actions he has taken. But his overstay is not doing justice on the African revolution project. He is destroying his own legacy. It’s bad,” said the EFF leader at the time. The Zimbabwean also hit back at Malema, questioning who he was to tell him to step when his own comrades wanted him to lead. “Do you listen to anything from Malema? Who is Malema? The call to step down must come from my party; my party at congress; my party at central committee. [In such circumstances] I will step down,” the Zimbabwean president said during an interview with The Sunday News at the time. – Caxton News Service Read original story on citizen.co.za