The Economic Freedom Fighters has reiterated its call for President Robert Mugabe to step down to avoid his name being used for “further degeneration of a country he led to political liberation”. “Zimbabwe has experienced a lot of pain and destabilization over of the past two decades, lost its currency and displaced millions of its citizens due to economic hardships. “The EFF appreciates that some of the pain caused in Zimbabwe was due to imperialist actions, but a significant component of this was self-inflicted. President Mugabe cannot insist on remaining in power even when he is physically incapable of doing so,” the party said. It further condemned Mugabe’s close relatives and wife, Grace Mugabe, who apparently took advantage of the president and allegedly used his power and struggle credentials to “purge” political opponents. The party said the Zimbabwe Defence Force was within its rights to “protect” Zimbabwe from factions that were using the country for self-enrichment. “The ZDF should, therefore, be encouraged and allowed to lead a non-violent transition which will culminate in free, fair and democratic elections, and which will in the process respect the autonomy of the judiciary. “The ZDF should make sure that there is no loss of life during the transition, but should decisively suppress agent provocateurs who will try to undermine the long overdue transition,” it said. The party has also called on the South African government to “prepare” to welcome Mugabe for political asylum. “He must be allowed to come to South Africa so that a peaceful transition can indeed take place. We must do this to aid peace allowing Zimbabweans to immediately stabilise their country and institutions for the sustainable civilian rule and a better future.” The party said it refused to be on the fence when political developments such as these are unfolding in the neighbouring Zimbabwe. It has always expressed its standpoint on key political issues on the African continent and the situation in Zimbabwe was no different, it argued. – Caxton News Service Read original story on citizen.co.za