The first incident was in Elandskraal, where the bodies of the Johnson family, Tony Johnston (30), Mandy (28) and their son Michael (seven) was found by members of the the Attaqau K-9 Dog Unit at approximately 11.50am on June 7, about 50 metres from their home after being engulfed in flames.The second incident was at Narnia Village, Welbedacht, where police found the body of a four-year-old Catherine Matope next to a dam in the area. The little Matope was found at about 9am on Thursday, June 8.The third incident was this morning, Friday, June 9. This fifth death was reported after a volunteer firefighter succumbed to smoke inhalation and severe burns in the George MediClinic. He was part of a team of volunteers busy with rescue operations between Plettenberg Bay and Knysna. The body of the deceased was identified as a Bradley Richardson (24), a volunteer firefighter with the Southern Cape Fire Protection Association from Plettenberg Bay.The circumstances surrounding these incidents is being investigated.Police have also opened three separate inquest dockets after these fires claimed the lives of five people in three separate incidents.A 70-year-old missing lady was reported as missing from her Bergvallei home, near Karatara, in the early hours of Friday morning. She was found unharmed by members of the Tsitsikamma K-9 unit after at a friend s house in Barrington.Both police spokesperson stressed police from afar as Cape have been deployed to help. The Knysna police has reinforced deployment to the affected areas in Knysna to assist with operations in search of possible missing or lost and unaccounted relatives of those that have fallen victim to the devastating fires. Forensic and rescue dogs will also be deployed in these areas. Suspects arrested for theftPolice have arrested seven suspects in connection with housebreaking and the possession of stolen property, but the police stress that widespread looting is not happening.These seven suspects are scheduled to appear in the Knysna Magistrates Court after they were found in possession of furniture suspected to be taken from one of the destroyed houses. These suspects between the ages 40 and 68 were arrested on the spot and are detained at Knysna police holding cells.Further investigation reveals that some of the furniture to the value of about R80 000 was stolen from a house in Brenton-On-Sea.The police want to appeal to any affected families and residents to please call the Knysna SAPS at 044-302 6687 or the 08600 10111. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on www.knysnaplettherald.com