A popular perception is that Allister Coetzee has failed in his duty to promote transformation in the Springbok side but the embattled national coach has vehemently defended his record. He was criticised on the recently concluded tour to Europe for not granting more meaningful opportunities to players such as utility back Warrick Gelant, scrumhalf Rudy Paige and centre Lukhanyo Am. Gelant did make his starting debut against Wales last weekend, albeit out of position on the wing. The unfortunate Am was only afforded three minutes off the bench while Paige was inexplicably left out despite a promising showing as replacement against Italy and the indifferent form of Ross Cronje. “That’s nothing more perception (that I’m not promoting black talent),” said Coetzee. “Look, I’m not someone to window dress. I don’t do that. If you want to window dress, then yes, you will just play a guy for the sake of numbers. And then play another. “I’m here for succession planning.  I have to make sure that when these players rock up at the 2019 World Cup, they are at their best and that the right players have been given opportunities at the right time.” Average black player representation in 2017 has been hovering at 39% – 9 black players out of a match squad of 23. That’s still 12% away from the 50% that needs to be achieved at 2019’s showpiece tournament in Japan. Also, in seven of the Boks’ 13 Tests this season Damian de Allende has featured in the match squad. His father previously stated he’s white but it’s reliably understood that Saru considers the midfielder as non-white. Coetzee insisted though that the drop in black representation in the starting line-ups for the tours were unavoidable. In the last three Tests of the year, only four, four and three black players were included. “Lukhanyo was, unfortunately, injured for most of our campaign. Siya Kolisi had to go back home for paternity duty and Beast Mtawarira was injured,” said Coetzee. “I’ve agreed to Saru’s strategic transformation plan. There are going to be challenges and there will be mistakes. But I understand fully what’s going on and the bigger picture.” – Caxton News Service  Read original story on citizen.co.za