Dismissed former Zimbabwean Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa, has landed Manyame Airforce Base to take control of the country’s government, a source told African News Agency on Wednesday but this could not be officially confirmed. There are also unconfirmed reports that 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe, his wife Grace, and other members of his close political circle are under house arrest. Mnangagwa, known as “The Crocodile” was sacked last week amid a row over leadership in the ruling Zanu PF Part of Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe. Mnangagwa, a veteran of the country’s liberation struggle against white domination, fled to South Africa after death threats. Zimbabwe’s military has seized control of state television and says is acting against “criminals” surrounding 93-year-old Mugabe but that the president and his family were safe. Major General S.B. Moyo the actions of the country’s defence forces were not a coup. Soldiers, tanks and armoured vehicles are in Harare. Events have unfolded after the head of the defence forces, General Constantino Chiwenga, warned on Monday that the army would take “drastic action” if factions in Zanu PF did not stop purges against party members with military backgrounds. Zanu PF issued a statement calling Chiwenga’s comments treason. Chiwenga spoke after the “G40” faction in Zanu PF, which supports Mugabe’s wife Grace for succession, promised to purge all allies believed to be supporting the Lacoste faction, which is said to be sympathetic to Mnangagwa. Earlier: Harare quiet in army control while war songs blare over state radio and TV The streets of Zimbabwe’s capital Harare were eerily quiet on Wednesday morning but wartime songs were broadcast over state radio and TV stations, while soldiers stopped pedestrians and motorists to ask for identity documents, witnesses say. Military armoured personnel carriers were parked at strategic points throughout the city – including government and police buildings — and Harare International Airport, recently renamed Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport, has also been taken over by the military. Zimbabwe’s military has seized control of state television ZBC and said it is acting against “criminals” surrounding 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe. But a military spokesman has denied this is a coup despite rumours that Mugabe and his family are under house arrest.   Events have unfolded after the head of the defence forces, General Constantino Chiwenga, warned the army would take “drastic action” if factions in the ruling Zanu PF did not stop purges against party members with military backgrounds. This followed last week’s sacking of war veteran Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa amid a struggle for party leadership with Mugabe’s wife Grace, who is supported by the youthful “G40” party faction. Mnangagwa fled to South All members of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces have had leave cancelled and have been ordered to report at their barracks with immediate effect. There is a heavy military presence at Mugabe’s offices, situated between Second and Fourth streets along Samora Machel Avenue. This presence also extends to the Defence House and Parliament government buildings near the President’s offices. The Chikurubi Support Unit pf Zimbabwe’s police force, which usually supports the Zanu PF youth league, has also been taken hostage by the military, witnesses say. “Usually, the police support unit quickly rushes onto the streets and it was feared they would mobilise the youths and give them guns so they could fight back, but the military boxed them deep in the night and took over all strategic points there,” a witness said. “There is a secret armoury deep in the ground in the mountains there, and the army moved in quickly to secure it and make sure no one else has access to it.” – Caxton News Service Read original story on citizen.co.za