In a statement on Thursday afternoon, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula explained that the job of acting police commissioner was given to another policeman due to ongoing investigations against the former acting boss, Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane, reports The Citizen.Mbalula reiterated that Phahlane had not yet been found guilty of any of the allegations against him, but he was being released in order to focus on defending himself and to avoid any perception that Phahlane might be able to use the powers of his office to interfere with the investigation against him.President Jacob Zuma replaced Phahlane in the acting role on Thursday with Lieutenant General Lesetja Mothiba, the former Gauteng commissioner and now the head of the management intervention unit in the SAPS s head office.Mbalula said in his statement: There are clearly serious allegations of misconduct on the part of Lieutenant General Phahlane which also impacts on his fitness to hold office as the acting national police commissioner. The allegations against Lt. Gen. Phahlane raise questions of conduct that would be inconsistent with expectations that attend those who hold leadership in our police service. I am duty-bound to make it clear that Lt. Gen. Phahlane has a right to be presumed innocent until proven otherwise. The allegations levelled are yet to be tested in a court of law. Mbalula added that the risk of perceived interference in the Ipid [Independent Police Investigative Directorate] investigation into Phahlane leads itself to potential national security risk should Ipid be impeded in doing their constitutional duty lawfully by anyone . It is my belief that Lt. Gen. Phahlane and the rule of law would be better served if the Lt. Gen. is afforded adequate time and personal freedom to focus on these personal allegations against him without the added burdens of the office of the acting national police commissioner. Mbalula said he had informed Zuma of the negative impact Phahlane s continued presence as the top cop was creating, and the decision to remove Phahlane was then made.The minister added that a new police commissioner would be appointed after General Riah Phiyega s contractual term of office comes to an end on 10 June .It is now also in doubt whether Phahlane will return to work as the forensic services divisional commissioner and be capable of doing the job.Mbalula said he had asked Phahlane to provide reasons to him for why he should not be suspended from active police duty completely. I have made a determination that the enormous task I am soon to set out for the Forensic Services towards the full professionalisation of the police to achieve the best outcomes in the fight against crime and to secure our national security integrity require that the police are fully focused on the job at hand. The scourge of crimes against women and children is extremely important and cannot be left to hope. With these priorities, it is clear to me that the initial reasoning over Lt. Gen. Phahlane s undesirableness s stay as acting national police commissioner equally arises in his original role. Accordingly, Lt. Gen. Phahlane has been requested by myself to furnish me with cogent and reasonable reasons why I should not suspend him from his position as forensic services divisional commissioner with immediate effect. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za