Social media users took to Twitter on Thursday to report that a shooting incident had taken place during the robbery of a jewellery store at Hyde Park Corner in Sandton, Johannesburg, reports The Citizen.One of these Twitter users was Zimbabwean swimmer and two-time Olympic champion Kirsty Coventry, who tweeted a video and said, Shots erupt in jewellery store robbery behind us whilst having coffee in hype park mall (Johannesburg). No one injured. Thank god. Shots erupt in jewellery store robbery behind us whilst having coffee in hype park mall (Johannesburg). No one injured. Thank god. pic.twitter.com/FQVnIyp75L&mdash; Kirsty Coventry (@KirstyCoventry) April 13, 2017Other Twitter reports started to surface after 10am. Most users reported that there was a shootout, although details about it were not clear.A photo tweeted by Brian Tristam Williams (@briantw) showed police in the centre and an area cordoned off.All clear at Hyde Park Corner following shootout. Investigation underway. pic.twitter.com/a2H6MDjdJf&mdash; BrianTristamWilliams (@briantw) April 13, 2017Just been told that there is a shootout in Hyde Park Shopping Center and should be avoided.&mdash; Yossi Hasson (@yossihasson) April 13, 2017Police have confirmed the shooting incident at a jewellery store.#sapsGP #HydeParkRobbery Jewellery shop robbed this morning, one shot was fired, no injuries. Fled scene with stolen jewellery. SW pic.twitter.com/4tcze77E1B&mdash; SA Police Service (@SAPoliceService) April 13, 2017The Sandton Chronicle further reported that the regional marketing executive for Hyde Park Corner, Rieghardt Marais, responded to the robbery incident saying, Security personnel in conjunction with the South African Police Services responded to an armed robbery this morning at Hyde Park Corner. Armed men robbed Boutique Haute Horligerie in the centre. The scene has been secured, no persons were injured during the robbery. Suspects are still at large, police are currently on the scene and investigating the incident, Marais said.He added that the centre is operating as normal. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on