Mayor Makhosini Nkosi believes the flooding experienced in Newcastle this week was not classified as a disaster, reports the Newcastle Advertiser.During a press briefing at Pine Junction on Thursday morning, Nkosi said the term disaster could not be used until the extent of the flood damage was assessed.He further stated the residents lives would return to normal in three to four days.According to Nkosi, about 55 households and about 250 people were affected by the floods, which left areas of Madadeni, oSizweni and Newcastle underwater.The water also resulted in a transformer exploding.He added it would cost about R4 million to replace the transformer that exploded, and more to address damaged roads. The water is still flowing down the mountain so rivers and streams are dangerous. Don t cross them even though the rain has stopped. The municipality has budgeted to reseal and repair roads, but Nkosi said this was insufficient in view of the floods.In fact, he believed the amount was not enough even before the floods. Any worse and we would have had to reallocate funds from other roads. The road situation is disturbing and we have to work within constrained budget; funds are limited and demands unlimited. Asked if Newcastle was prepared for further flooding, Nkosi said the provincial government was rolling out district disaster management centres.One such centre was being constructed in Madadeni at present.Without providing specifics, Nkosi said the provincial government was on hand to galvanise resources in the case of a disaster. This is how we are equipped, he said. You can never be prepared for a disaster. Questioned on the plight of Finnemore Street residents, in light of relocation promises made as far back as 2011, Nkosi said one had to distinguish between privately erected homes and those constructed by the government.He claimed only nine houses in the area fell under the latter.Nkosi said the decision was taken previously to relocate these few residents and demolish the existing houses as they were uninhabitable.Only three more families would be assisted in this way. Privately built homes are a challenge not as a municipality but as a society. We aren t expected to relocate these people who pay bonds. According to Nkosi, the municipality had to honour its own responsibilities, as many other residents in the township areas needed the same assistance.A total of 77 homes in Madadeni and oSizweni were also underwater.Speaking on long-term solutions to the flooding, Nkosi said the municipality could widen or deepen the Ncandu River to ease the flow and minimise the chances of flooding.That was the only logical solution he could give at this time. We are working closely with officials to find the causes of flooding and create plans to deal with them. Morgan Pillay, a resident of Finnemore Street for the past 10 years, said after the 2011 floods he was promised to be relocated.To date, all he had was empty promises.He stated the only action taken by the municipality in the six years since, was to cut trees and remove reeds choking the Ncandu River. My house is not liveable. I had to stay with friends on Tuesday night and now have to sort out living conditions for myself and my wife. Traffic Chief Ashok Anandhaw, Mayor Makhosini Nkosi and community services head Mandla Sithole open the briefing. Picture: Newcastle Advertiser Caxton News ServiceRead original story on newcastleadvertiser.co.za