Seven out of 13 looks so much better than four out of 12. That’s the desperate math that Springbok coach Allister Coetzee will use to justify his view that 2017 was a year of progress for the national rugby side. Don’t be fooled by it. The blunt truth is that the Boks were merely less bad than France (9th in the world rankings), Argentina (8th) and Italy (14th). Indeed, all their victories this year came against those sides. South Africa could only draw twice against a mediocre Australian side and suffered record defeats at the hands of the All Blacks and Ireland. Of course, they also lost to Wales’ C-team. Welcome to the new world of the Springboks, where things have become so bad that mediocrity is something to celebrate. Highlight of the year It doesn’t happen often that a defeat is celebrated but the 24-25 thriller against the All Blacks at Newlands was truly compelling. The Springboks played the type of robust, counterattacking rugby that was so effective under Jake White and Peter de Villiers, providing evidence that there indeed still is a “South African way” of beating the best side in the world. Remember also that the previous two results against the world champions had been 57-0 and 57-15 defeats. So this was a rousing result. Disappointment of the year Anyone can rightfully wake up in a cold sweat over the 57-0 and 38-3 thrashings handed out by the All Blacks and Ireland respectively. Yet one has to wonder what could’ve happened had Warren Whiteley not suffered a season-ending groin injury in the series against France. The inspirational Lions skipper had seemed to have cultivated a nice team spirit and would’ve been a much-needed cool head when the going got tough later in the season. With Duane Vermeulen mooted to come back in mid-2018, where will Whiteley’s international career go now? (Through no fault of his own) Controversy of the year To be honest, the Springboks were just dragged down by poor coaching and performances but they certainly didn’t disgrace themselves off the field. As a result, the shock of not being named as 2023’s World Cup host surely must rank as a low point. South Africa were preferred hosts for the tournament before politics took over. The fact that Rugby Africa voted for France said everything that needed to be said. Star of the year   Bruising, dynamic and consistent. Thanks for being a shining light, Malcolm Marx… Try of the year We’re back to Newlands again, where Jean-Luc du Preez’s try showcased the Springboks’ traditional ruthlessness on the counterattack. What a delightful off-load from Handre Pollard too! (Watch from 2:25)  Funniest moment of the year Well, the memes that came out after the 57-0 rout in Albany were pretty funny…    – Caxton News Service  For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za