Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has not lodged a formal complaint over allegations of state resources being used in the ANC’s presidential race to settle political scores, Inspector General of Intelligence Dr Isaac Dintwe confirmed on Wednesday. “We are aware of the assertions and connotations that came to the fore some few weeks ago but to date, our office was never approached by the deputy president or a representative,” Dintwe told Talk Radio 702. Earlier this month, Ramaphosa said he believed there was “likelihood” that state agencies and resources were being abused to promote factional political agendas following a report published by the Sunday Independent that alleged the aspirant ANC president was involved in numerous extramarital affairs with young women based on leaked emails from his personal accounts. Ramaphosa admitted to having one affair with a medical doctor eight years ago, which he said he had resolved the matter with his wife, Dr Tshepo Motsepe. He also said him and his wife had financially supported 54 students, both men and women, some of whom were referenced in the emails. The inspector general said his office took the allegations relating to any wrongdoing by the State Security Agency seriously and said he was considering an investigation. “There is an opportunity to give this matter attention, and we have some complaints that could actually be pointing to similar problems alleged in this instance,” said Dintwe. ‘Bogus’ intelligence report On the affidavit deposed earlier this year with his office – by the SA Communist Party’s (SACP) first deputy general secretary, Solly Mapaila, against President Jacob Zuma over a so-called intelligence report he used to fire Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas from National Treasury in March during a controversial Cabinet reshuffle – Dintwe said he was still investigating the matter. In July, Mapaila said Zuma had lied to the SACP during a meeting with the party’s leaders when he told them Gordhan and Jonas were axed because they had allegedly conspired and plotted a coup to overthrow his government. Dintwe said there was also a need to fully probe the abuse of state resources to settle political scores by politicians. “Unfortunately if people are not coming to us and not giving us evidence we really have nothing to work on… It is high time that we look at this matter in its totality and ensure that as and when we develop legislation, you will make legislation in such a way that there are consequences,” he said. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter Read original story on citizen.co.za