Taps are running dry in Carletonville affecting old age homes and schools after Rand Water lowered the pressure of the water supply to the town.The Democratic Alliance (DA) at the Merafong Municipality said they had since been inundated with calls from residents in Carletonville. Ina Cilliers, MPL DA Merafong constituency head, said initial reports suggested that Rand Water had lowered the pressure of the water supply to the town because the municipality did not honour its weekly payment arraignments. It appears as though most of the town below the 007 reservoir has been affected. Despite numerous unanswered calls to the municipality, the water supply has remained cut since the end of last week, she said.Cilliers added that she had written to Merafong executive mayor Maphefo Mogale-Letsie to inquire what the municipality will do to address the water shortage. She said it was doubtful whether Merafong would be able to pay Rand Water at the end of the month, as this stood to hinder the payment of salaries at the severely cash-strapped municipality.Cilliers said the DA s Councillor David Nieuwenhuysen has been working tirelessly to bring water tankers into his community, as it is among the worst affected. Several schools and old age homes are currently without water, yet the municipality has only supplied one tanker with a 5 000l capacity. The tanker has not serviced any of the affected old age homes, schools or hospitals in the area as yet, she said. Municipal officials have now been asked to request that residents conserve water as best they can. This is an indication that the situation will not improve in the near future. The fact that the Merafong Municipality routinely leaves water leakages unattended makes matters worse for those who must now go without water, Cilliers added.Cilliers recently submitted a petition to have Mogale-Letsie removed as mayor. The petition is currently with the Petitions Committee in the Provincial Legislature.According to her, the ANC has long forgotten about the people and care only for its own interests. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za