In the aftermath of the most destructive fire the region has experienced in recent history, Knysna residents speak with gratitude about having escaped unscathed and been overwhelmed by the support from the surrounding communities, reports the Knysna-Plett Herald.One such family is Colette and Neill Kapp and their two sons Evan, 8, and Owen, 6, who literally had minutes to run from their cottage in Knysna Heights to get to safety. After their emergency evacuation, they spent one night at the Knysna Yacht Club. People arrived with blankets and food and the following night we were already staying in a cottage in Simola where we can live for a week (free of charge), said Colette.In a Facebook post, Colette expressed her happiness when her husband managed to retrieve her jewellery box in the rubble of their burnt-down home. I am so happy my husband found my ring. Speaking later from her temporary home in Simola, she said, My diamond ring, which my husband had made before we got married thirteen years ago, has such sentimental value and, when he arrived with it this week after having sifted through the rubble, I feel so blessed, even though we lost everything. My boys were even given uniforms, which enabled them to go back to school in Knysna. Ewan said his classmates came to give him a hug upon hearing what had happened to us. The Kapps recently returned to South Africa from Australia and Neill is ready to start his own design and construction company.Because of the wonderful acts of kindness, the Kapp family feel they can overcome this setback and are ready to start their new life in Knysna.The family recently immigrated back from Australia. Picture: Knysna-Plett HeraldIn another incident, Garden Route SPCA vet Dr Anesca Loots feels lucky that her two children were safely with her while she was at work in George and were completely out of harm s way when their house in Knysna Heights burnt down. I rushed back when I heard of the calamity, but as the N2 was closed I was grateful when I learnt my husband was fine and that he had managed to load our Dachshunds and take them to safety. Friends and family rallied to our support and we had a bed for the night in George. I am immensely appreciative of the support and help received from the community, said Dr Loots, speaking from her surgery at the SPCA on Tuesday where she was hard at work again doing operations on injured animals in George. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on www.knysnaplettherald.com