President Jacob Zuma is like a python that has swallowed more than it can digest , according to political analyst Elvis Masoga, reports The Citizen.He was responding to the increased calls for Zuma to step down that were made, among other places, at the memorial service of fallen ANC stalwart Ahmed Kathrada, where recently axed finance minister Pravin Gordhan said he unashamedly encouraged mass mobilisation. It has been said I am encouraging mass mobilisation, Gordhan said. Yes, I am unashamedly encouraging mass mobilisation. We are encouraging mass mobilisation to ensure that people shall govern. Masoga told The Citizen that Zuma was suffocating to death from swallowing this huge elephant. He has been swallowing impalas and rats for some time now, but his time is up now. Zuma s survival skills and theatrics are now coming to an end the wheels have come off, Masoga said.He described Gordhan s call for mass mobilisation as coming from a true patriot. Every person who loves his or her country will do that to save us from this mafia. Everyone in the country must rise up against these thieves. There are different ways to remove Zuma and one could well be the ANC calling a special national executive committee meeting to map the way forward after a cadre shamelessly disregarded the ruling party. Another analyst, Professor Andre Duvenhage, said it was crystal clear that there was a total rebellion against Zuma in the country, including from within the ANC. We are likely to witness a very big battle over the next few weeks and there is a strong possibility that the ANC might want to remove the president. That could happen if the ANC calls an emergency meeting or in parliament, where several opposition parties have also been calling for a motion of no confidence in the president. Zuma, on the other hand, is also prepared for a fight and he will counter with the ANC Youth League and the Women s League, who have already made it clear that they support the recent Cabinet reshuffle, said Duvenhage.He said Zuma would be lucky if he survived to the end of 2017, stressing the president found himself under immense pressure from all corners of the country. We must also remember that there are still pending court cases against him and chief among them is the spy tapes . Also, the EFF has been to the Constitutional Court asking for action to be taken regarding the Nkandla matter. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za