The 10.7m tall tower showcased a whopping 6 370 cupcakes as the previous record stood at 8m and was set up in Dubai last year, Letaba Herald reports. This sweet event was organised by the charity Cupcakes of HOPE on September 23rd at Rio Sol, Vereeniging. “It’s all to help very ill children,” says Cupcakes of Hope founder Sandy Cipriano, whose team works tirelessly to raise money for the families of children with life-threatening diseases. “Right now, we need to raise R600 000 for stem cell and bone marrow transplants. There are desperately ill children in our network whose families need all the help they can get,” Cipriano says. Glenn Pollard, the adjudicator from Guinness World Records, says: “This was a very well organised Guinness World Records official attempt which was impressive enough. However, to see the labours of those commendable efforts bring together the wider range of the community – and for such a wonderful cause – made the success of the attempt all the more special. Cupcakes of HOPE can justifiably feel incredibly proud of their achievement & of every single person that supported them.” Gold Sponsors: From left to right: Johan Bekker (Bekker Steel), Sandy Cipriano (founder of Cupcakes of HOPE), Cilo Cipriano (Rio Sol), Daniel Dos Santos (Domento) and Glenn Pollard from Guinness World Records. This amazing tower also paid tribute to more than 50 little cancer warriors who gained their Angel Wings. “These brave little warriors will never be forgotten and will always be in our hearts… I would like to thank all our Cupcake Angels across South Africa, more than R300 000 was pledged towards Cupcakes of HOPE. The funds raised today will be used to save children’s lives!” September is Childhood Cancer Awareness Month and the 6th National Cupcake Day 4 Kids with Cancer will be celebrated at 63 malls across the country on 30 September, also known as the Sweetest day of the year. For a R10 donation you will receive a delicious homemade cupcake, as well as a leaflet with information around the early warning signs of childhood cancer. Cupcakes sold – Caxton News Service Read original story on letabaherald.co.za