Gary Player – a figure that has for the best part of a career spanning more than six decades been a symbol of sporting greatness, was on 6 November inducted into the South African Hall of Fame at a glittering ceremony held at the Sun City Superbowl. This marked a pinnacle moment in the life of the King Edward VII old boy who, continuing on his sheer path of greatness, added to an already illustrious list of accolades the only way he knew how – unassumingly. With his ever-supportive wife Vivienne Player in attendance, The Black Knight gladly accepted yet another acknowledgement of his immeasurable contribution to the sport of golf, although this time, in his own backyard and at a venue that he holds dear. CEO at Sun International, Anthony Leeming, SA golf legend, Gary Player and his wife Vivienne at the South African Hall of Fame induction ceremony at the Sun City Superbowl. Photo: Tshepiso Mametela With this latest milestone, however, and the many admirers he’s gained throughout his career, Player said it was hard to say what the cherry on top of the cake was but added that he was delighted that his mark on the sport had culminated in his induction. “It’s always hard to say what the cherry on top of the cake is, but this is something that I appreciate very much indeed,” said the 82-year-old golfing legend. “To be inducted into the Hall of Fame at Sun City, where I’ve been since day one when it was bush, and one of my favourite places in the world and the best resort in the world, is a great honour. He added that he was inundated with love and respect on the night and would be forever grateful. Gary Player expresses his delight at being inducted into the South African Hall of Fame at the Sun City Superbowl. Photo: Tshepiso Mametela Player’s unchallenged feats, which include being the world’s most travelled athlete with more than 26 million air kilometres to his name, are a testament to his remarkable resilience and unparalleled love for the sport which championed his success. He was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 1974, before receiving the South African Sportsman of the Century and PGA Tour Ambassador of Golf awards in 2000. He was also awarded the 2006 PGA Tour Payne Stewart Award in recognition of philanthropic achievements and the exemplary manner in which he has conducted himself on and off the course. Vivienne and Gary Player make their way off the stage following Gary Player’s induction into the South African Hall of Fame at the Sun City Superbowl. Photo: Tshepiso Mametela “I’m just very thankful that golf has enabled me to travel more miles than anybody that’s ever lived, dined with presidents of America… with poor people in the villages in Africa and India – what a cross-section of life I’ve had.
“I honestly can tell you that it’s a divine gift to have been so successful. I couldn’t say that I had the talent, it was a simply divine gift.” (function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.11';  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); Read original story on rosebankkillarneygazette.co.za