EFF leader Julius Malema has pleaded with South Africans to continue praying for legendary jazz musician Hugh Masekela. The musician earlier last month cancelled all his music commitments, saying he needed to focus on fighting the prostate cancer he had been diagnosed with. “It is a tough battle, but I am greatly encouraged by the good wishes of family, friends and everyone who has supported my musical journey, which remains the greatest source of my inspiration. “I have cancelled my commitments for the immediate future, as I will need all my energy to continue this fight against prostate cancer,” said Masekela in a statement at the time. He further revealed that he had been receiving treatment for the cancer since 2008 after doctors discovered a “small speck” on his bladder. “The treatment seemed to be successful, but in March 2016, I had to undergo surgery as the cancer had spread,” he said. “In April 2017, while in Morocco, I fell and sprained my shoulder. I began to feel an imbalance when I was walking, and my left eye was troubling me. Another tumour was discovered and subsequently, in September 2017, I had emergency treatment and the tumour was neutralised,” added the 78-year-old musician. But now, in an unexpected move, Malema has taken to social media to ask South Africans to pray for Masekela. “Fellow South Africans let’s pray for one of our own Bra Hugh Masekela, a true African legend. God bless our uncle, Son of the the soil #GetWellSoonBraHugh,” he wrote, along with a picture of the two together. https://twitter.com/Julius_S_Malema/status/935993241337548802 His followers told the EFF leader they would pray for the musician as the continent “needed” him. “Please tell him how much we still need him, the whole continent needs him. We need a Bra Hugh to keep us in check when we start being ‘counterfeits.’ #GetWellSoonBraHugh,” said one of his followers, while another wrote: “May the good Lord bless him. He’s the nation’s uncle…. that uncle that plays jazz the whole day everyday ekhaya.” – Caxton News Service Read original story on citizen.co.za