EFF CIC Julius Malema has argued the debate on whether the #GuptaEmails are fabricated is null and void. He was addressing the media this afternoon at his party s headquarters in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, reports The Citizen.He disclosed that his party would be writing to Canadian, Chinese and US governments as well as the World Bank about companies implicated in the Transnet locomotive transaction irregularities. We are going to do all of that because we are in possession of the emails. Our [IT] security [experts] are going through each email, and linking every email linked to the minister. Once we have completed that process, we will compile a dossier for the impeachment of those ministers and the president, he disclosed.Malema dismissed suggestions by some implicated in corrupt deals exposed in the emails that the emails veracity had not been tested and therefore would not comment on the contents. If you think these emails are fraudulent or fake, why did the president of the IFP confirm the email? [Former ANCYL leader] Anda Bici confirmed the email. I called him after that, and said you were taking chances, and you saw everyone was eating. He reiterated the former ANC youth leader had confirmed the email.During the 2016 ANC manifesto launch held in Port Elizabeth, Bici, together with Mzwandile Masina, who was then the deputy trade and industry minister, Thembinkosi Nciza and Nhlanhla Nciza, flew into the windy city on a chartered luxury eight-seater Learjet 45. It was estimated to have cost R220 000. Ayanda [Dlodlo] is not denying the emails. The individuals are confirming the authenticity of these emails, he continued. Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo, in responding to allegations that Guptas paid for her hotel stay at the uber-luxury Oberoi Hotel, overlooking Burj Khalifa, only pointed out her hotel bill was settled by Fana Hlongwane, who is her long-time friend . Malusi and Zuma and all of them should stop denying the emails, he emphasised, and questioned why those who denied the authenticity of these emails had so far not taken any legal action.Malema also told journalists congregated at his party offices that there was more where the documents distributed to the strong media contingent came from, but could not make them public because lawyers have advised against releasing other documents .In a Cabinet statement released a while ago, acting spokesperson Phumla Williams said: Cabinet has noted with serious concern the media reports on the leaked emails that are purported to implicate ministers, officials and private individuals in alleged wrongdoing. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za