Nine people were left injured in the Delmas and Bapsfontein area last night after a tornado, believed to be the same one that tore through the Krugersdorp area, descended on the area, damaging a business and a home, Krugersdorp Newsreports. Krugersdorp and its surrounds were devastated when a tornado hit the area on Monday, October 9, at about 3pm, passing over the Netcare Pinehaven Hospital, Cradlestone Mall, Protea Ridge Primary School and Farm City in Ruimsig. ER24 paramedics responded to a call from a business off the R50 in Delmas, where a building had been damaged. Photo supplied “Upon arrival, paramedics found that a small building had sustained serious damage, injuring the six people inside,” said Russel Meiring, spokesperson for ER24. Paramedics assessed the patients and found that all six had sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate. They were treated for their injuries and transported to various hospitals for further treatment. A short while later, paramedics were called out to the Bapsfontein area, where a residence had apparently collapsed, again allegedly due to the tornado. At this scene, the paramedics found that a man and his two children had sustained minor to serious injuries. All three patients were treated and provided with pain-relieving medication before being transported to a nearby hospital for further treatment. It is alleged the tornado reportedly also hit Tembisa. Photo supplied A tornado was also reported to have swept through Zandspruit informal settlement in Honeydew following the heavy hailstorm that just hit parts of Johannesburg on October 9, Roodepoort Northsider reports. According to emergency personnel from Vital Med Tyron Pieterse, who attended the scene: “Houses were destroyed, sign boards down and vehicles tipped over.” He added countless trees have been rooted out and fallen into cars. “We’ve currently been accounted for two patients; it’s a mess out here. We can’t tell if there’s any more injured or dead at this stage,” said Pieterse, observing the scene. “If anybody is injured in Zandspruit or anyone needs assistance, they can come to the other side of Beyers Naude Drive in an open piece of land where all relevant services are going to be congregating and treating patients,” Pieterse urged. – Caxton News Service Read original story on krugersdorpnews.co.za