South Africans have paid more than R500 000 so far this year on trips by Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s wife, Norma, accompanying him to international events. Norma has accompanied her husband to four trips this year: the Spring events of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund in the US; the Brics conference and meeting of central bank governors in Shanghai in June; the African investor conference in London in June; and the G20 conference in Germany in July, Business Day has reported. The finance minister’s spokesperson, Mayihlome Tshwete, told the publication Gigaba’s wife accompanied him to international events as it was allowed in the ministerial handbook. He said it gave them an opportunity to be together. Earlier this year, it was reported that Western Cape Premier Helen Zille’s trip to Asia, accompanied by her husband, Johann Maree and three officials from her department, cost taxpayers at least R1 million. Zille travelled to Singapore and Japan and allegedly spent R636 159 on “travel, accommodation and other others”, and R500 000 was paid to Wesgro, a provincial government entity tasked with encouraging economic growth and investment in the Western Cape, but does not fall under Zille. The company also organised seminars during the trip, Sunday Times  reported. Zille reportedly told the publication she realised that the amount spent was “hefty”. She, however, further said it meant an average of R127 000 per person all expenses included, “which is within a reasonable ballpark for this kind of trip”. Two officials stayed for two weeks while she and her husband and Dr Laurine Platzky, the deputy director-general for strategic programmes in her department stayed for nine days. She further told the publication to bear in mind the exchange rate. She also did not take a personal secretary to “save the costs”. Her husband, who reportedly did research, went with her for the first time in eight years on an official government trip. “According to the handbook he may come on every trip,” she was quoted as saying. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter Read original story on citizen.co.za