Gauteng Premier David Makhura has again vowed to battle e-tolls until they are brought to a complete stop. The controversial system, which is used to fund the Gauteng Freeway Improvement Project, has been strongly criticised and contested since its implementation four years ago. The South African National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral), who runs the project, has exclusively told The Citizen it would now consider the using the fuel levy for its funding woes. Makhura said the user-pay system was affecting the economy of the province. “We are engaging the minister of transport on this matter, but it can ultimately be resolved by national government because it is a national competency. “We can only do our part. However, that does not mean we will fold our arms,” Makhura said. The system was introduced by government in order to ease traffic congestion in Gauteng. This was prior to the 2010 Fifa World Cup, in anticipation of traffic jams during the event. But the project became a burden on road users who are required to pay tax via e-toll gantries erected at certain intervals on the roads. The trade union movements – most noteworthy Cosatu – opposed the system saying it burdened the poor who were already struggling to make ends meet. The most vocal opponent against e-tolls has been the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa), which has been involved in a duel with e-toll operators by taking on the legal fight on behalf of the drivers affected by the tax. Sanral recently announced its decision to scrap R3.6 billion in e-toll debt, as resistance intensified. But the state entity vowed to continue billing motorists for outstanding fee payments – a move that Outa opposes. Makhura added: “We did what we could at provincial level. “What we, as a province, can do is to engage with national government.” He said he had done his best and even appointed a panel which looked into the socioeconomic effects of e-tolls. The panel’s recommendations were submitted to government, but are yet to be implemented. – Caxton News Service  For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za