Uber drivers have barricaded 7th Avenue in Parktown protesting against Uber for allegedly not protecting their drivers, Rosebank Killarney Gazette reports.Parktown police s Lieutenant-Colonel Sandile Mkhize said police are at the scene of the protest to monitor the protesters.Metered taxi drivers are also blocking roads and have brought traffic to a standstill on major routes leading to the OR Tambo International Airport.The R24 west and R21 south are badly affected as the taxi drivers are reported to have staged a go-slow on the highway. It is understood that the taxi drivers are protesting against Uber, as they claim that it is taking customers away from them. The metered taxi drivers also want Uber to be regulated.Spokesperson for the Gauteng traffic police Busaphi Nxumalo said: The department has taken the decision to remove the taxis that are blocking the roads, to allow traffic to flow. We will arrest anyone and impound vehicles that continue to block our roads. What they are doing is illegal. She added their offices were open for drivers to come and address any grievances they might have. Those going to the airport to catch flights have been advised to make use of the Gautrain.Uber drivers barricading 7th avenue in Parktown. @EWNTraffic @ewnreporter #protest pic.twitter.com/mckjZRNbCl&mdash; Tayla van Dyk (@TaylaVD8) March 10, 2017According to the Kempton Express 16 taxis had been impounded by the metro police on the R24.Earlier, the Airports Company South Africa&#8217;s Trevor Jones stated that traffic was backed up and advised passengers who had flights to try and take the Gautrain. Passengers were also advised that negotiations are under way with airlines to establish how they can accommodate travellers delayed by the blockade, said Jones.According to Ekurhuleni Metro police spokesperson, Kobeli Mokheseng, traffic started flowing around 8.45am at a snail s pace on all major intersections and off-ramps that were blocked by the taxis. When we started to impound taxis they cleared the road and traffic could start moving again. The Gauteng Traffic Police will investigate the matter further but we are working with a lot of law enforcement institutions as well as taxi associations to work out a plan of action to make sure this type of incident does not happen again, said Mokeseng. Should this happen again, we will take further steps against taxi associations. According to Mokheseng there were more than 50 taxis on the R24 and more than 70 on the R21 south and north coming from areas such as Johannesburg, Pretoria and Germiston. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on rosebankkillarneygazette.co.za