A Boitumelo mother in the south of Johannesburg, Nontsikelelo Tapuka, 34, has lodged assault charges with the Sebokeng police after she was allegedly beaten by her son s creche principal and staff, Sedibeng Ster reports.Tapuka says the incident, which took place in Boitumelo, has left her in shock. She said her son was also traumatised, as he was present at the time of the incident. I took my son to creche right before I go work, like I do every day. When l got there, I was told about documents that I had not handed over and signed, as is the school s policy. My son was told to follow me out the door. They said that my son would no longer be allowed to come to creche. The owner of the school was not there, so I returned with my son to give the owner s mother an explanation. I told her that I could not sign the contract, as I was planning on taking my son out of the school and that I had already tried to give my ID to my son s teacher, but she gave it back to me when my son and I were shown the door. My husband and I were still in the process of separating so I knew my son would have to change schools. Tapuka says when she saw that the matter could not be resolved she asked for her money back. She claims that she had already paid R160 in school fees and would not have enough money to enroll him in a different school without it. The woman called her daughter, and when she arrived, I told her that they must give me my money back if they don t want my son there anymore. They said that I was disrespectful, and this was when they started beating me. There were about six of them, and I could not do much to defend myself. The worst of all is that my son was made to watch while they were doing this. Tapuka alleges that the group tore off her panties while they were beating her. My skirt was torn and my braids had been pulled off my head. I called the police, as there was nothing else to do. Tampuka says that to her surprise, she was also arrested for alleged assault while she was at the hospital waiting to be checked by a doctor. I was then arrested and put in the same cell with the same person who beat me with the help of her staff. When contacted, the owner of the daycare centre declined to comment.Sebokeng police spokesperson Captain Teboho Lephoto confirmed that two cases of assault were being investigated. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on sedibengster.com