The University of Bedfordshire has announced a short while ago it has suspended former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu from her studies at the Global Banking School. Although an independent institute, the school is affiliated to the University of Bedfordshire and offers an MBA programme in Banking. University spokesperson Ulrika Meegolla informed The Citizen the information published yesterday that she was studying for an MBA at the University of Bedfordshire was, as a matter of fact, incorrect. Given the severity of the allegations, Ms Mahlangu has been suspended from her studies at the Global Banking School Her lawyer said she graduated with an MBA from a different university in the UK and now registered for a full-time MBA with the University of Bedfordshire. The Global School of Banking, in addition to the MBA programme, offers a BSc Hons in Business and Finance and a postgraduate certificate in global investment and finance offered over a three-month period. “Ms Mahlangu is studying at Global Banking School, not at the University of Bedfordshire, which, however, is the awarding body,” Meegolla said. The information was provided by Mahlangu’s attorney, Angelo Christophorou, of Biccario Bollo Mariano Inc. who wrote: “Our client [Mahlangu] presently resides in London, and is a full-time student, registered with the University of Bedfordshire, where she is registered for a second Masters (MBA),” in a letter that demands The Times newspaper correct the information that she is studying at the London School of Economics. “Nevertheless, given the severity of the allegations, Ms Mahlangu has been suspended from her studies at the Global Banking School on a without prejudice basis in the light of information relating to a tribunal in South Africa,” the University of Bedfordshire spokesperson said in an emailed response to The Citizen. This is a developing story, and further details will be provided as they unfold. – Caxton News Service Read original story on citizen.co.za