It seems Police Minister Fikile Mbalula might be facing a lawsuit soon following wrongful arrest in the Western Cape on Friday last week and making sure to post pictures of the “suspects” on Twitter. Police arrested 10 “suspects” last week following the Cape Town Marikana murder in which 11 people died. The “suspects” were made to lie on the road, cuffed with cable ties and the minister posted pictures of the “suspects” on Twitter.   However, it turned out that six of the “suspects” were family members who were transporting a dead relative in a coffin to his funeral in the Eastern Cape, The Times has reported. The group was detained at Cape Town Central police station on Friday and freed on Sunday night without a charge. “The statements that the minister has been making on social media did not help the situation. He tweeted our pictures and said our testicles must be crushed,” one of the family members told the publication. The group told the publication they would sue the police for wrongful arrest and humiliation. Founding member of the Congress of the People (Cope) and former Gauteng premier Mbhazima Shilowa commented on reports of the wrongful arrests, and said the family must sue. “I don’t think they would have been treated like this or paraded if they were not black. Someone must help them sue,” he said. DA leader Mmusi Maimane responded to Shilowa and said he would help the family sue Mbalula for the wrongful arrest, saying the police minister must be “squeezed”. “This is a minister focused on being famous than doing his job. It’s outrageous, and I will join law action against him for this,” he said. But Mbalula did not Maimane’s assaults lying down. He said “Ntate Moruti” must stop complaining about crime and pointing fingers from the comfort of his office, challenging him to join police on one of their raids. “Cape Town, especially Nyanga, is a hotspot for criminal activity. Ntate Moruti must be careful in siding with suspects of crime and defending them. “Western Cape has always complained that it isn’t getting focus from SAPS. We are here now, working on the grounds – Moruti is upset. “Mmusi Maimane this is what is happening in Cape Flats, I’m here today with Operations I challenge you again to join us in fighting crime. “Been in Cape Town working with SAPS to fight criminality Ntate Moruti is promising legal action defending suspected criminals,” said Mbalula. The DA leader said he was not defending suspected criminals but “our people who were not criminals and you used them for your Twitter”. He told the minister that he would be willing to meet him anywhere, anytime, but he didn’t want to join “stunts”. After posting pictures last week, the minister was congratulated for his “hard work” and swift arrest, though some told him to stop updating people about his every move on Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za