Bantu Holomisa, the man who was Nelson Mandela’s political “surrogate” son, says the ANC’s time as “big brother” of South African politics is over and a coalition “government of national unity” could be a reality after the 2019 general elections. The former Transkei military ruler, and now leader of the United Democratic Movement, says the country’s political future lies in a “principled compromise” – a conscious effort by all South Africans together to achieve a consensus government in memory of Nelson Mandela. He said that instead of “continuing the unfinished business” of Madiba by “fulfilling the dream of a new South Africa, the last few ANC-led administrations have certainly dropped the ball. They did not find sustainable solutions to ensure economic freedom, quality education, good health care, as well as safety and security for our people”. Speaking at the fourth anniversary of Mandela’s death in Houghton, Johannesburg, last night, Holomisa said that considering the possibility of a new “government of national unity” in 2019, future coalition partners will have to practise “principled compromise” as per Madiba’s example. There can be no space for a “big brother” mentality. “Madiba was willing to share power and not dominate. He recognised that the advantages, which come with forging consensus and building a social compact, comprises the support of not just your side, but also that of your opponents. “The lesson we should learn, when it comes to possible future coalitions, is that we need to develop the practice thereof, which is fundamentally about sharing power, not power mongering,” he said. “This take will take real skill and level-headed leadership.” Holomisa, who accompanied Mandela on many foreign trips prior to 1994, said although Madiba had not yet then won any election, he was treated like a president-elect and afforded the high-level protocol in foreign capitals. “Madiba had an impressive, magnetic personality, as well as a commanding presence. He was also a consummate master of the art of persuasion,” he said. Holomisa praised Mandela for having defused a time bomb and single-handedly working for peace and reconciliation in the country. “He, almost uncannily, managed to unite a deeply divided nation.” Mandela displayed exceptional leadership, including during the assassination of SACP leader and MK chief of staff, Chris Hani. “This atrocity had brought the ‘left’ and the ‘right’ to a head-on confrontation. If Madiba had not practised sensible, responsible leadership, you might agree that South Africa would have been dumped into civil war,” Holomisa said. Madiba had the wisdom and presence of mind to surround himself with capable individuals, including high-calibre Cabinet members. “Madiba was not the ‘reconciliation junkie’ he is often portrayed as. He was far more than that. He was a stern taskmaster. He could sometimes be harsh and overbearing.” Holomisa lambasted the ongoing corruption and state capture under the Jacob Zuma government. “It is difficult to comprehend how some people stooped so low by stealing funds allocated to give Madiba a dignified farewell, as the public protector recently found. This goes beyond commonplace corruption. It is not only immoral, but evil,” he said. He was referring to the theft of R300 million by the Eastern Cape government meant for the acceleration of social infrastructure development under the pretext that it was going to be used for Mandela’s funeral. Corruption and economic rating downgrades that scared off investors and caused alarming job shedding were undoing Mandela’s legacy, said the UDM leader. – Caxton News Service Read original story on citizen.co.za