Senior ANC MP Makhosi Khoza says she is living in fear following death threats allegedly from ANC Youth League (ANCYL) members but she will not be silenced, reports The Citizen.She infuriated the ANCYL after her public comments that she was in favour of a secret ballot on the parliamentary no-confidence vote on President Jacob Zuma, to allow MPs to follow their conscience. Khoza wrote on social media that she would not vote for an amoral leader, but did not mention any names.She told The Citizen yesterday: I am not a suicide bomber, I still want to live and contribute towards shaping the society, even if it means I have to die. In speaking the truth, she said, there would be casualties, and she might end up being part of the statistics, but would not be silenced. ANCYL urged members to picket outside her Durban house and posted her home address on social media.Khoza wept as she spoke of her fears for her children s lives. Her niece received a threatening phone call on Thursday, saying your mother will be gone . She said her attempted attackers can harm her, but they should not touch her children. For them to say that they will picket outside my house, it is personal and very close. It s no longer about me, but my children. They know if they harm my children I will resign. She said she wrote a letter to ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu, who said he would discuss the matter with National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete.Former National Assembly speaker Frene Ginwala told The Citizen it was the speaker s responsibility to provide security for all members of parliament. She said if the threats were coming from the ANCYL, ANC leadership should investigate. Parliament s spokesperson, Moloto Mothapo, said it provides security on the premises only.ANCYL national spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize directed enquiries to the KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo and Mpumalanga ANCYL, who were unavailable for comment.Khoza has opened two cases with the police. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za