Mugabe’s reign as the head of state of what was once considered Africa’s bread basket, Zimbabwe has officially come to an end. According to BBC, Emmerson Mnangagwa who was sacked by Mugabe as vice president about two weeks ago will become Zanu-PF’s president. For 30 years Mugabe was the president of Zimbabwe and having led the country to independence from British rule, his role as a liberation leader was tainted by his refusal to step down and allow another leader from within his own party’s rank to lead. In an intense meeting led by the Zanu-PF’s special central committee, officials acted on a resolution made by provincial branches to oust Mugabe. Minister of Home Affairs, Obert Mpofu chaired the meeting and encouraged robust debate. The agenda tabled Mugabe’s presidency with Mpofu stating that the leader had been taken advantage of by his wife and party officials who sought to use him for their own benefit. According to Temba Mlisiwa a senior Zanu-PF official over 300 people attended the meeting in which Mugabe was referred to from the start of the meeting as an outgoing leader by Mpofu. Mugabe is understood to have resisted pressure to exit however he was apparently given no choice and told a decision had already been made by Zanu-PF branches. His ousting comes at the end of a week in which he was at first held under house arrest and together with Grace was not allowed to leave his presidential palace in Zimbabwe’s capital, Harare. Mugabe’s aides and inner circle were arrested while several managed to escape and leave the country. On Thursday, Mugabe and the military general Constantino Chiwenga posed for an image which was released to media. The image was taken at state house where negotiations and talks were taking place to discuss Mugabe’s exit. Though Mugabe is understood to have declined to step down, Chiwenga and other party leaders would not accept this. On Friday Mugabe was seen at a graduation ceremony where he capped close to 3 000 students. He immediately left for his residence after the ceremony where more talks are said to have taken place.  On Saturday, word that all of Zanu-PF’s provincial branches had voted Mugabe out was made public. A mass march was held in Harare which saw thousands of appear confidently attend to express their support for his removal. In South Africa, smaller marches were held.  On Sunday, the special committee meeting made known its decision to recall Mugabe. Read original story on citizen.co.za