The number of threats to take the Tshwane metro to court is increasing with the number of motorists crashing their cars near the Centurion sinkhole.Lack of visibility at night and insufficient warning signage, or barriers, seem to be the major problem leading to the crashes, the Rekord Centurion reported.Rekord recently reported about a traffic light that apparently confused drivers at night, leading to five crashes.The accidents happened after the discovery of the sinkhole.In the latest accident on Saturday, June 24, three vehicles drove into the sandbank in front of the Dolc Vita residential complex in Jean Avenue, near where the sinkhole developed.One of the drivers involved, Angus Foote, 38, told Rekord he got the fright of his life.Foote said he was driving from Doringkloof, on his way home to Valhalla, when he saw the traffic light. The next moment my car hit the hard-to-see sandbank and bounced around and crashed into the complex wall. All the airbags deployed. When he got out of his car he saw paramedics and tow truck drivers on the scene already. I told them I just had an accident, wondering how they got there so fast. They said they never left the scene because there was a crash half an hour before. Foote said he was shocked when he learnt he was the third person to crash through the sandbank that evening. I could not see anything. There were no yellow barriers or reflectors warning motorists of the sandbank, or even indicating the dangers of the nearby sinkhole. Foote said someone needed to take responsibility for the dangerous situation. My concern is if they had other accidents, then there s a problem. It looks like they cannot prevent accidents from happening there. Who is going to take responsibility before someone gets killed? Foote said he was in the process of getting legal advice about the matter.No comment was received from the Tshwane metro police at the time of going to press.Metro ward councillor David Farquharson said the cones and barriers that had been placed near the sinkhole disappeared last week, and may have been stolen.Farquharson said the sinkhole was categorised as a priority to be repaired urgently. We are still waiting for the geology report, said Farquharson.Large sinkhole forces road in the north of Durban to be closedMeanwhile, in the north of Durban, the Northglen News reported that a burst pipe caused a massive sinkhole to appear on Somerset Drive at the intersection of Taunton Way and Midsomer Crescent.The road was closed to traffic in both directions on Wednesday, with motorists being forced to drive around the sinkhole. According to workers on site, who were laying fibre optic cable, the main water pipe was hit causing the large leak.The company laying the cable apologised for the inconvenience, saying they would try to get the hole and leak fixed as soon as possible. Several residents have been left without water due to the leak, adding to the growing frustration.The City s roads department estimate the repair work to take at least a day.Motorists using Somerset Drive are urged to find alternate routes going towards Gateway and Kindlewood Estate. Alternatively, they can turn down Keynsham Drive and then back onto Somerset Drive. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on rekordcenturion.co.za