A crash involving a bakkie and an SUV occurred on the corner of Swartkoppies Road and Summit Drive in Alberton at about 7.40am on Tuesday morning, reports the Alberton Record.National paramedics and ER24 were called to the scene of the accident and, after checking the moderately injured, all patients, apart from the driver of the bakkie, were taken to hospital for further treatment.The incident seems to point to issues with the intersection.Marlene Swanepoel, principal of Covenant College primary school, said: This intersection is a disaster. Every day we have parents complaining to us about the dangers here. Driving towards Summit Drive from Kliprivier Drive, most of our parents keep in the right-hand lane so they can turn right into Summit Drive. They say other drivers flash their headlights at them to get out of the way, even though most are travelling the speed limit of 80km/h. Then, turning right into Summit Drive, you really have to take chances to get across Swartkoppies Road. Most drivers coming from the other direction far exceed the 80km/h speed limit, making it extremely dangerous to get across the road. In the end chances are taken, otherwise you would never manage to get across and into Summit Drive. Traffic is obviously worse at peak hours, when parents are dropping off their children at school and collecting them later on in the afternoon. We desperately need traffic lights at this intersection. One parent, who lives in Glenvista and did not want to be named, added: My children have been at the primary school and now attend Covenant College high school, so I ve been driving this route from Kliprivier Drive for many years. This intersection has always been a nightmare, but over recent years, it s become far worse. Since Waterstone College opened its doors 10 years ago, traffic has obviously increased, and more so as Waterstone has grown, but this road also carries heavy traffic from Lenasia, Eikenhof and Walkerville and trucks also use the road. Hardly any of the motorists stick to the 80km/h speed limit, it s more like a race track! Many years ago I signed a petition asking for traffic lights at this intersection, but no avail. There are traffic lights at the intersection of Peggy Vera Road and Main Service Road, where most parents turn for Waterstone College, so I don t see why we can t have them at this dangerous intersection. Is it a case of waiting for someone to be badly injured or killed? Caxton News ServiceRead original story on albertonrecord.co.za