The high school-based Congress of South African Students (Cosas) has called on the ANC’s two leading presidential nominees, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Cyril Ramaphosa, to unite behind the ANC’s century-old flag. The organisation, which mobilises pupils for better education at both primary and high schools, said the failure by the two to work together would cost the ANC the 2019 general election as a victory by either of them would see the ruling party losing power. Cosas Johannesburg regional chairperson Penuel Maduna said the two candidates were antagonistic towards each other in their campaigns. He called on them to stop character assassination of each other. He said Cosas had decided not to support any of the seven ANC presidential candidates. The other candidates are Lindiwe Sisulu, Baleka Mbete, Jeff Radebe, Mathews Phosa and Zweli Mkhize. But Maduna’s open letter to Ramaphosa clearly indicated that he was personally opposed to him, in particular. The letter vilified the ANC deputy president for speaking out against state capture and corruption. He alleged that Ramaphosa’s campaign was nothing but character assassination aimed at President Jacob Zuma and anyone contesting the party election. He also attacked him about the Marikana incident and the recent allegations about extra marital affairs. The rest of Maduna’s statement appeared to be frivolous and unfactual, including allegations that Ramaphosa had monopolised the fast food industry and “captured” ANC members, making them loyal to him instead of to the ANC. Maduna further claimed the deputy president had chosen to say nothing about the ANC in his campaign. However, McDonald’s, which Ramaphosa previously owned in South Africa, was not a monopoly fast food group in the country, no ANC members had voiced personal allegiance to him and throughout his campaign, Ramaphosa has been calling for ANC unity and the need for party renewal. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter Read original story on citizen.co.za