The 2017 Independent Examinations Board (IEB) results have shown an overall improvement over those of the previous year. The 2017 pass rate of 98.76% is slightly up on the 98.67% recorded in 2016. Anne Oberholzer, CEO of the IEB, said, “The 2017 NSC candidates have done very well and have once again shown that with a commitment to hard work over their 12 years of schooling, and supported by a dedicated cohort of teachers and parents, they have passed with flying colours. They are ready for the next step in their journey of life-long learning.” She reportedly added: “As the world changes, it is inevitable that traditional educational pathways will be challenged and demands placed on the mass education system to respond appropriately. Globalisation and the integration of societies across traditional boundaries demand that citizens develop appropriate social and emotional skills to manage a variety of non-traditional relationships effectively. “The age of the IT professional has turned the traditional notion of success upside down. Mark Zuckerberg, Bill Gates and Steve Jobs all dropped out of university, but have contributed enormously to the world. “SA’s Mark Shuttleworth founded his digital certificate company, Thawte, while still a student. The key to their success was a keen interest in a field that demanded a change in attitude from the traditional ways of acquiring knowledge to an exploratory, entrepreneurial spirit of discovery. “The world of performing arts and entertainment has many examples of people who found the traditional academic educational pathway was not for them, including Oprah Winfrey, Tom Hanks, Brad Pitt, and Charlize Theron.”   Oberholzer said, “It is not useful for everyone to be focused solely on a university education, possibly neglecting their real strengths in the false belief that a degree is the only vehicle to a secure and successful life.” The closing date for the application for re-marking is 10 January. The closing date for learners who qualify to enrol for supplementary exams is February 12 Read original story on sandtonchronicle.co.za