The value of Virat Kohli’s masterful innings in the second Test between the Proteas and India in Centurion was immediately apparent during Monday’s second session of the third day. The visitors’ skipper and world-class stroke-maker was simply magnificent in crafting his 153 (217 balls, 15×4), fully confirming his pre-series billing again. It meant India could gobble together 307 in their first innings to limit South Africa’s lead to just 28. If that gave them hope then awkward seamer Jasprit Bumrah had them joyful with a cracking spell of 2/19 as he reduced the hosts to 3/2. Both those wickets were down to deliveries that jagged back but, crucially, kept low. Aiden Markram and Hashim Amla were on the back foot and caught LBW plumb in front. Yet, after an initial period of strife, Dean Elgar (23*) and AB de Villiers (33*) settled down to guide the Proteas to 60/2 at tea. Most of the day to date though belonged to Kohli. There was one false shot when a jab off Lungi Ngidi (1/51) flew past gully but the rest of the time he was absolutely thrilling to watch. Kohli didn’t look rushed and actually never tried to play a shot in anger, instead feasting on overpitched lengths and driving skillfully. Neat cuts and a nifty clip off the legs off Kagiso Rabada showed his all-round prowess. That said, the Proteas lacked the patience that Ngidi had preached at the end of the second day. Rabada in particular was guilty as he became frustrated by the dogged Ravi Ashwin, who survived a few body blows to eventually make a valuable 38. He notably struck three cracking boundaries off South Africa’s premier fast bowler, who conceded 40 runs off a seven-over spell and seemed to lack clarity of thought. The new ball belatedly brought the wickets of Ashwin and Mohammed Shami, while Hardik Pandya was comically run out when an innocuous Vernon Philander direct hit saw him not grounding his bat or having his feet in the crease. Morne Morkel wrapped things up to end with creditable figures of 4/60. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za