Mahlasela is, it seems, refusing to sign a new contract with Celtic as he prepares to move away as a free agent at the end of the season. The 26-year-old attacking midfielder is rumoured to be a target of both Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates. Jelusic has distanced himself from the idea that this contract stand-off is why Mahlasela is not playing. The Celtic coach claimed that an injury concern had kept him out of the Telkom Knockout final defeat to Bidvest Wits, while Mahlasela did play the final 12 minutes of Sunday’s win, though by then Celtic were already leading 3-0. And it does have to be noted that two of Celtic’s goals were scored by a man who seems to be Mahlasela’s alternative – former Baroka FC forward Victor Letsoala. Whatever the reasons, Mahlasela has clearly remained a strong force in the minds of some Phakaaathi readers, who voted him as the Player-of-the-Month for November. The silky skills of the young man certainly brighten up an often dull Absa Premiership, and he was fundamental to Celtic in November as they made their way into the Telkom Knockout final. Mahlasela came off the bench to set up Tshegofatso Mabaso’s winner for Celtic at Platinum Stars in the TKO quarterfinals, also played his part in Celtic’s semifinal win over Polokwane City, and nearly broke the deadlock in Celtic’s league draw at Platinum Stars, his shot producing a fine save from Mbongeni Mzimela. It remains to be seen how much game-time Mahlasela gets in Celtic’s next two games before the Christmas break – at Mamelodi Sundowns on Saturday and then next week at home to SuperSport United. After that, Celtic could then look at selling Mahlasela in the January transfer window, to cash in on him before he leaves at the season’s end. That option, however, would only come into play if clubs like Chiefs or Pirates were prepared to pay a transfer fee, and that does seem unlikely. Mahlasela, meanwhile could do with improving his statistics in front of goal, with just one strike in the Absa Premiership so far this season, the winner at Cape Town City on October 17, to go with the one he scored in the whole of last season. – Caxton News Service Would you like to place a soccer bet? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za