The Life Esidimeni tragedy not only claimed the lives of 141 mentally ill patients, but that of some of their relatives who became stressed as the saga unfolded. Testifying before the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearing on Tuesday, families of the victims detailed the impact of the botched mental health marathon project on their loved ones. An emotional Lesiba Legwabe, whose epileptic brother Mothofela died in Cullinan after a transferral from Life Esidimeni, told the arbitration that his wife fell sick and died as a result of his brother’s death. ”My brother’s death caused my wife to die too … she ran around like a headless chicken trying to find her brother-in-law and sent from pillar to post by your government,” he told state Advocate Tebogo Hutamo, who had apologised on behalf of the Gauteng government. ”She died of stress … I buried my brother in August 2016 and then again buried my wife in December … your apology does not augur well with me … I am a widower now, while you have your wife…I lost people in this.” Mothofela died at the Cullinan NGO after spending 33 years at Life Esidimeni. Legwabe appealed to the National Prosecutions Authority (NPA) and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) to ”do their job” and bring the perpetrators to justice. “We elect people in government to lead us, not to kill us. My wife will rest in peace if we get to the bottom of this … before she died, she asked me if we managed to find out what happened to Mothofela … we do not know even today,” he said. ”Your apology, and that government is taking care of this is a drop in the ocean. Children died in 2007, but you and the arrogant MEC did not listen. You ignored advice from Section 27…we wouldn’t be here if you listened.” On Monday, Christine Nxumalo testified that her sister Virginia Machapela’s death at the NGO Precious Angels in Attridgeville, Pretoria, affected Machapela’s daughter whom she took in. Machapela’s daughter Shanice collapsed and died on the day the arbitration hearings started. “We buried her this past weekend, she was not sick. She only suffered from a cold and was taking medication … I asked her to come with me to the hearing, but she woke up late and I could tell that she was not gonna come here that day,” Nxumalo said. Shanice had just turned 21. – Caxton News Service Read original story on citizen.co.za