Integrity was the simple reason for John Mitchell having little hesitation in joining the Bulls as its new director of rugby, reports The Citizen.As expected, the high-profile former All Blacks and Lions coach was confirmed in the role on Thursday evening and represents a feather in the union s cap given how their brand value has sunk in the last few seasons. A big part that appealed to me was the integrity the people involved showed and the integrity that existed in the process, said Mitchell at his unveiling at Loftus. It s very clear to me what is required and the discussions have been very honest. There is a lot of competence in this union and I feel I can add to it. The 53-year-old is currently still head coach of the USA national side but will commence his duties on July 16.Part of his duties include taking over the coaching of the Super Rugby side next year, where he replaces Nollis Marais.Marais, who s been under increasing pressure for a poor campaign in 2017, won t be sidelined though.He ll continue to coach the Currie Cup side and is expected to be an assistant to the Super Rugby outfit.Mitchell s appointment is the main piece of the Bulls turnaround puzzle, which was announced two weeks ago.Various high-profile players have left the union in the past few years and attendance figures have plummeted, necessitating the board s need for drastic intervention.It s that attitude that s also appealed to Mitchell. What I want to commend the board for is them being open for intervention, he said. They re open to changing their mindset. To me, that s extremely positive because I feel I can bring a positive element of change. But I ve also got a lot to learn. Mitchell s tenure at the Lions ended badly following a player revolt but he believes he s learned from that experience and is eager to try his hand with another South African team. Wherever I ve coached, I ve left a sustainable model. My methodology is very different to the Lions, said Mitchell. I ve done a lot of research and I believe my method is cutting edge and unique. It s one that allows players to take ownership for each day, brings clarity and confidence. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za