The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has on Thursday, called on international business software giant SAP to reveal the names of those who allegedly facilitated bribes between the company and a Gupta-linked firm. This comes after SAP said it had voluntarily disclosed its breach of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in relation to allegations that its SA operation paid kickbacks to a Gupta-linked company and had initiated disciplinary procedures against three of its employees. In a statement released on Thursday, the EFF said the company’s confession means that the Guptas were in control of business deals in South African state owned entities and in exchange they charged bribes. “International business is essentially paying bribes to a foreign Indian family to do business with SOEs. We call on SAP to reveal the names of the individuals that facilitated the receipt of the bribe on the part of the Gupta owned company. “These individuals, including those of SAP, must be charged and prosecuted under South African law because the crime of bribery occurred in our own country. Failure of the NPA to pursue this matter means the South African authorities have now outsourced their responsibilities of law and order to foreign nations like the USA.” The party also called on all government departments, institutions, and entities to dump SAP. “We must stay away from corrupt companies, locally and internationally. Noteworthy is the fact that Gupta corruption is unthinkable without the full participation and complicity of white international capital. White international capital has always been ready to engage in corrupt, criminal and unethical business behaviour to advance its narrow selfish profit interests.”  The EFF said all the alleged Gupta-linked corruption was made possible by the family’s relations with President Jacob Zuma, finance minister Malusi Gigaba and other senior ANC leaders. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za