Seven men fled with firearms and R800 000 in cash after killing a Boschkop man in Mooiplaats, east of Pretoria, on Thursday night, the Pretoria East Rekord reports.Boschkop police spokesperson Captain Marissa van der Merwe said: Johannes Hendrik Kirstein was shot dead on his smallholding in Mooiplaats. She said two security guards were patrolling plot 68 when five men approached them, two of whom were armed.The security guards were held at gunpoint and assaulted. One was hit over the head and tied to the security gate while the second guard was taken to the house. The men went inside the house and shot Kirstein in the upper body. He later died on the scene, said Van der MerweThe men tied up the second security guard and confronted Kirstein s wife Eva, demanding to know where the safe was, they also wanted to know where her son was.Van der Merwe said: The men took firearms from the safe and fled with a 1911 colt 45 replica pistol, cash worth far more than R800 000 as well as an unconfirmed amount of US dollars. They fled with three cellphones and a torch.Van der Merwe said two accomplices arrived shortly after the shooting. They were waiting outside, and a vehicle picked up the group. There were seven men in total with only two confirmed armed initially, she said.Van der Merwe said a murder, and house robbery docket was opened.Security firm Brinant Group contracts manager Stephen Wolmarans said an army of police and security firms responded to the attack at about 10.20pm and were by on Friday on the hunt for the culprits.Vehicles were searching the N4 and surrounding areas. We later received information that the suspects crossed the N4 between Pienaarspoort and Savannah streets. They were fleeing towards Bronkhorspruit Road. He said Accorn security were also in pursuit. We were told that the men had taken firearms from the scene and were now heavily armed. Unfortunately, the men fled. He said some unconfirmed reports were that the men went to Mamelodi.Police were investigating with some still at the murder scene. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on rekordeast.co.za