In a statement on Wednesday, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) said it had received and analysed the complaints lodged by the City of Joburg s mayor, Herman Mashaba .They confirmed it had been alleged that the former head of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks), Lieutenant General Mthandazo Ntlemeza, gave instructions that serious cases of corruption reported to the Hawks by the City of Joburg not be investigated . The allegations against General Ntlemeza are serious and range from defeating the ends of justice to corruption. Such serious allegations warrant investigation. After analysis, a decision has been made in terms of section 28 of the Ipid Act to investigate the allegations contained in the complaints received. It is also possible that upon further analysis, some of the cases referred to the Hawks may be taken over by the Ipid for investigation. A team is being assembled to initiate the relevant investigation. No time frame is set for the completion of the investigation.Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba s spokesperson Tony Taverna-Turisan had confirmed earlier on Wednesday that a criminal case of defeating the ends of justice had been opened against Ntlemeza by Mashaba.Ntlemeza had been dismissed from his post hours earlier by the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria.In his complaint, Mashaba noted the city s Group Forensic and Investigation Services (GFIS) had learnt Ntlemeza had called a meeting on 27 March at the Germiston SAPS Hall with all Gauteng Hawks members.There, Mashaba alleged, Ntlemeza noted he was concerned cases registered by the City of Johannesburg were receiving preferential treatment; some members were visiting the offices of the GFIS run by former Gauteng Hawks boss Shadrack Sibiya. He warned them to stop doing so, or face the consequences.Ntlemeza is alleged to have said that those investigating local municipal cases would be monitored, and had to report each meeting they had with the City of Johannesburg to the acting provincial head of Gauteng, Brigadier Sekelema Lewele.Mashaba claimed further that Ntlemeza planned to introduce a Clandestine Task Team to monitor and report directly to him on all cases related to the city.The mayor complained that cases of illegal valuations, city officials and City Power employees soliciting bribes, fraudulently issued export certificates, fraud at Joburg Market worth nearly R2 million and housing corruption in Ivory Park of up to a million rand had allegedly been ignored by Ntlemeza.Ntlemeza s spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Robert Netshiunda, told The Citizen Mashaba should concentrate on running his municipality and leave the investigations to the Hawks. He is talking nonsense. This year, even last year, we arrested people for corruption and the mayor kept quiet. Why? Whatever he is saying now is pure nonsense, said Netshiunda. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za