It is impossible for a society to remain normal amid times of presidential abnormality, according to political analyst Elvis Masoga.He was responding to what appears to have been an upsurge in service delivery-related protest actions over the last couple of weeks. Some of the areas that have been affected are Vuwani in Limpopo; Lichtenburg in North West; and Lenasia and Finetown, in the south of Johannesburg.Speaking to The Citizen, Masoga said the protest action is likely to continue unabated. I am not surprised that there has been an unprecedented upsurge in protest actions across the board. Our society is becoming abnormal as a result of this pervasive presidential abnormality, Masoga said.The executive director at the Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation (CSVR), Nomfundo Mogapi, described the protest actions as a last avenue for residents in a bid to get attention from those in power. The relationship between government and citizens does not seem to be improving at all, and ordinary people are at the same time also starting to get politically active. The fact that there has been an increase in incidents of disruptions and violence during the protests, is really concerning, she said. And the violence that we have been witnessing is also not just limited to [the issue of] lack of service delivery. We have seen it in parliament, as well in the recent past, Mogapi added.She said the rhetoric that has been used by Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, especially when he says the police must fight fire with fire, and the excessive force that has been used by some police officers during some protests, are not assisting in providing solutions to the situation. Mogapi warned of more domestic conflict if communication between government and its citizens was not properly managed. What is needed is for those in leadership positions to sit down and listen to what the people who elected them are saying, because the violent protests are a build-up in frustrated communities who believe that they have been ignored. Accountability doesn t only have to be at high levels of government, local ward councilors have an equally important role to play in terms of ensuring that they communicate clearly with their respective communities, as well as fight corruption vigorously wherever it manifests itself, Mogapi said.Meanwhile, early this year, the Municipal IQ, a specialised local government data and intelligence organisation which collects data on service delivery protests, said service delivery protests in 2016 were lower than in any year since 2011, but the violence which marred them was on the rise.According to Municipal IQ, Gauteng had the most protests last year, followed by the provinces Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal.Areas affected by protest action over the last couple of weeks: Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za