In a shocking twist, reliable reports have just revealed that the mother of the abducted one-month-old baby has been arrested along with her boyfriend and a third suspect.It is believed that he mother, Sibongile Mbambo was with the baby in the vehicle when the police intercepted the vehicle at the Mariannhill Toll Plaza in the early hours of Sunday morning and made the arrests.Highway Mail is currently awaiting an official press statement from KZN SAPS media cente which will have more details.Baby Siwaphiwe was taken after two suspects allegedly forced the mother and her eight-year-old daughter out of their Toyota Yaris at gunpoint at a local shopping mall on Friday, 10 March.KZN SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said on Friday that the suspects demanded the vehicle s keys and fled while the baby was still strapped in her car seat.A case of hijacking was opened at Durban Central police station. The car was later found abandoned in Montclair. Siwaphiwe along with her, car seat and pram but the baby bag was nowhere to be found.Since news of the abduction hit social media, Durbanites have been anxiously waiting for news of baby Siwaphiwe s safe return while police, security companies and the Durban community united in a frantic two-day search.March 12, 2017, 7am:The missing Durban baby, Siwaphiwe Mbambo has been found by SAPS after they followed a lead and intercepted a suspicious vehicle near the Mariannhill Toll Plaza between midnight and 1am on Sunday, reports the Highway Mail.Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, spokesperson for KZN SAPS, said the baby was found unharmed in the vehicle and has been taken to a place of safety. While the Highway Mail reports one person was arrested, TimesLive and EWN report that three suspects have been arrested. EWN further reports that the suspects face kidnapping and other charges.The one-month-old baby girl was taken during a hijacking incident in central Durban on Friday afternoon.Zwane thanked SAPS, the community and everyone involved in helping find the baby. Zwane added that circumstances are pending the investigation and a formal statement would be released soon.Rivaaj Ramdas of the Tactical Shooting Team, who has been involved in the search for the baby, said: Thanks to the heroes and servants of the community Prem Balram and Vinod Balram from Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) for going beyond the call of duty to to help us in the search for the baby. A huge thanks to the fellow SAPS team members who worked behind the scenes. You guys rock. Emergency Control SA also released a statement to extend their heartfelt gratitude to all who sacrificed their time, efforts and prayers for the little baby. There are too many people and organisations to mention but you know who you are. Ubuntu. God bless you all. United we stand, divided we fall. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on highwaymail.co.za