The African National Congress (ANC) 54 elective conference will be held at the Johannesburg Expo Centre (JEC) in Nasrec, just outside Soweto. It is one of the country’s largest conference and events venues.  Soweto Hotel. The facility is owned by the UK-based Montgomery Group, Black Economic Empowerment-registered consortium Fluxrab (led by Andrew Mthembu), local entrepreneur Raymond Burke, with Craig Newman being the current CEO.  Mandela House. Gauteng Tourism. The expo centre, nestled between the FNB stadium and some affluent Soweto surburbs, is not expected to accommodate all the ANC delegates attending the conference that kicks off this weekend. Several delegates, officials, media, guests and observers from outside the city and Gauteng are understandably expected to be making accommodation arrangements outside the venue.  Vilakazi Street Restaurant. There are several B&B establishments in the upmarket suburb of Diepkloof Extension as well as other sections of the country’s biggest township such as Pimville, Protea North and Orlando. A few kilometres away in the historic ‘Freedom Square’, where multitudes of South Africans gathered for the adoption of the Freedom Charter, is the four-star Soweto Hotel, boasting 46 deluxe standard rooms and 2 presidential rooms.  Vilakazi Street. About 10 kilometres away on Vilakazi Street in Orlando East, those looking to wind down from the predictable politics-heavy programme can soak in the sights and sounds of history and heritage on the only street in the world to boast two Nobel Prize winners. Nelson Mandela and Emeritus Archbishop Desmond Tutu were once residents of this street.  Sakhumzi Restaurant The tourist-friendly street offers an array of eateries, watering holes, a prototype shebeen, a wine bar as well as smorgasbord of arts and crafts, with trading hours extended when there are big events like the conference. Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba and MMC for safety Michael Sun recently unveilled a CCTV installation project aimed at curbing incidents of violent attacks on the famed street.  Vilakazi Street. City of Joburg. Business owners cannot be blamed for being circumspect, as the governing party doesn’t exactly have a glowing track record in settling its debts with service providers. The party’s two previous elective conferences, Polokwane 2007 and Mangaung 2012, were tainted by complaints from the tourism sector business owners that the ANC failed to settle debts after both conferences.  Vilakazi Street. City of Joburg. The University of Limpopo had to obtain a default judgment against the ANC after the party allegedly failed to settle a multimillion-rand debt from its historic Polokwane conference. It was reported at the time that the party owed the university almost R6 million for the use of its premises during the conference in December 2007. The debt was supposed to be settled immediately after the conference, but Luthuli House failed to do so.  Mandela’s House. Gauteng Tourism. The ANC’s inglorious record in making good by service providers was acknowledged by newly elected treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize. Party insiders told the media on 22 December 2012 that Mkhize would conduct a review of outstanding debts owed by the party to service providers. It was announced that the review was completed, and the party would begin processing payments to the providers.  Vilakazi Street. Gauteng Tourism. Two years after the Mangaung conference, a businessman took the ANC to court for allegedly failing to pay R7.4 million for a marquee used during its Mangaung elective conference. David Naidoo accused the ANC of failing to pay for the 2012 deal with M&M Marquee. Media reports said the “deal included, tables, chairs, lounge suites, air conditioning, sound and stage, and VIP toilets”. – Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.            Read original story on citizen.co.za