The skin of fish, a waste product many companies may consider a headache, has successfully been transformed by a Mossel Bay company into bespoke products many would wish for in the Western Cape, Mossel Bay Advertiser reports. After a year and a half’s research and development, the production of fish leather and fish leather consumer products has begun, a first for Mossel Bay and also for South Africa. According to Shirley Schmidt, the CEO of Afrishore, the Mossel Bay-based international company ventured into the innovative development of the range of products from fish hide. “The team at Afrishore is excited to see a roll-out of skills development in the town. Interest in the new venture was ignited at a marine conference, where a related topic addressing aquaculture was discussed,” Shirley says. “Upon returning to Mossel Bay the Afrishore team stumbled on information relating to the production of fish leather products in the Scandinavian countries as well as in Kenya. The seed germinated and many hours of research and development took everyone on an emotional rollercoaster of highs and lows, as often the product simply turned into a pot of fish glue. It was simply a case of a few steps forward and a fair number in reverse,” Shirley explains. Afrishore CEO Shirley Schmidt, financial manager Elizabeth Taylor and branch manager Eunice Ncithi proudly display their latest innovation – fish hides transformed into upmarket accessories Ocean Hide, Shirley’s exciting new addition to the Afrishore group of companies, ticks the box in addressing innovation and industrial symbioses. Shirley says the response from anyone who heard about this project was overwhelming and orders were on the table before the product line – which now includes a bespoke range of clutch bags, handbags, jewellery and shoes – was ready. Ocean Hide was invited to SA Fashion Week that led to a further invitation to SA Fashion Trade Week taking place in two weeks’ time in Johannesburg. Shoe manufacturers were sought and upmarket, stylish men’s and ladies’ shoes were manufactured, combining traditional leather and the colourful fish leather inserts.  A range of clutch bags and handbags have been designed and handcrafted with an Ocean Hide (OH) clasp. Jewellery was added to the range and it is anticipated furniture items will follow soon. “The future is exciting and filled with many opportunities. It should always be underlined that an idea is a blessing which needs to be nurtured to produce positive results,” Shirley said. Shirley and her team are working hard to ensure the new, innovative product range will provide jobs and opportunities for the people. Without giving away any trade secrets, she added that the fish leather Ocean Hide uses is a by-product of the restaurant trade that is being recycled. “There are untold training and manufacturing opportunities our team is exploring. We would ideally want the Mossel Bay residents – and its economy – to benefit from our latest, creative venture.” Known for pursuing the satisfaction of their clients in the energy industry, Afrishore typically tackles each challenge with safe, reliable and innovative solutions, always applying their slogan: local solutions for global clients. Shirley insists on quality. Her team is clearly enjoying the creative, innovative challenges the latest venture holds. – Caxton News Service Read original story on www.mosselbayadvertiser.com