Zweli Mkhize, ANC treasurer-general
  ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize. Picture: Twitter/ @MYANC While he is also a candidate for the post of ANC president, Mkhize has proven to be an influential figure in the ANC, and is wanted by Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma. He was the premier of KwaZulu-Natal and the chancellor of the University of KwaZulu-Natal. According to African News Agency, Mkhize, 61, a medical doctor and politician, was born in Willowfontein, Pietermaritzburg, on February 2, 1956. In 1987, he graduated with an MBChB degree from the University of Natal (now University of KwaZulu-Natal) and the following year, Mkhize did his internship at McCords Hospital in Durban before being employed at Edendale Hospital in his hometown of Pietermaritzburg. Thoko Didiza, former minister of agriculture  Thoko Didiza arriving on the red carpet for the State of the Nation Address by President Jacob Zuma in Parliament, Cape Town, 11 February 2016. Picture: Ntswe Mokoena/GCIS Didiza was the ANC’s candidate for Tshwane mayor despite not having any roots in the city, as she was born in Durban. Having been close to former president Thabo Mbeki, she became the CEO of the Thabo Mbeki African Leadership Institute at the University of South Africa in 2012. Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, defence minister
  Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula speaks, 28 August 2015, at Waterkloof Airforce Base where she shed light on claims that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa used a plane owned by the Guptas for an official visit to Japan. Picture: Michel Bega Though Mapisa-Nqakula was told to explain how the Guptas accessed military information for their wedding held at Sun City in 2013, she is still considered a worthy member by both presidential candidates. She has held several high-level positions in the party, including president of the ANCWL, deputy chairperson of the political oversight committee in parliament and minister of correctional services and home affairs. – Caxton News Service  For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za