Almost 80 per cent of motorists believe removing unroadworthy vehicles from our roads is the key to making roads safer. This comes after the Automobile Association (AA) ran a Safer Roads in SA survey. The association also found that 58 per cent of South African motorists said harsher punishments for all road offenders will also reduce fatality statistics. “There are too many unsafe cars on our roads and these lead to many crashes, some of them fatal. As motorists we need to ensure our vehicles are safe, not only for our use but for other motorists as well. If we want to improve our road crash statistics, keeping our cars roadworthy is an important step in that direction,” read the statement from the association. Motorists also said there is a great need for stricter policing and increased road safety education at school level. “Road safety education in schools, in our view, is critical to ensuring road safety in the future. Children need to be taught the rules of the road, how to be safer pedestrians and, ultimately, there needs to be a progression in this education to where the child is of driving age.” Other factors motorists highlighted which would make a difference in improving road safety is more rigorous training for learner drivers, increased public education via road safety campaigns and safer cars from manufacturers. “At this time of year, when traffic on major routes across the country is expected to increase significantly, we want to urge all drivers to obey the rules of the road and to drive safely to and from their holiday destinations.” The AA offered the following tips to motorists: “A number of provinces are already reporting fatal crashes. It is estimated that road fatalities in South Africa cost our economy almost R143 billion in 2016. But the real cost of fatal crashes cannot be measured in monetary terms alone; the real cost is the destruction to families caused by the loss of a loved one. “We urge all motorists to play their role this festive season in ensuring everyone has a safe journey. Should this not happen our annual fatality statistics will either stay relatively similar or, worse, increase on last year’s shocking statistics.” Read original story on rosebankkillarneygazette.co.za