MBOMBELA – The Department of Social Development (DSD) has welcomed the arrest of one of the suspects in the Mama Esther’s Safe Haven rape case. Police arrested a 65-year-old man in Pilgrim’s Rest on Wednesday. He was transported back to Mbombela and appeared in the Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. He will appear back in court on November 13 for his bail application. The Lowvelder reported that police were investigating a number of child rapes at the centre, as well as one involving an adult woman, that came to light over the past two weeks. The arrest comes in the wake of the department’s urgent application to the High Court to have the orphanage closed. “When it comes to children, we do not compromise,” said spokesman, Ronnie Masilela. “We are very determined to have the centre shut down, because it is not conducive for children to live there.” The suspect is one of two men believed to be connected to the multiple rape cases. Both men are known to the centre. One victim, an eight-year-old boy, was raped at the orphanage two weeks ago by a 27-year-old man who is still at large. Though not a permanent resident at the home, the boy had been staying there after an altercation with his mother. The man sneaked into the boys’ sleeping quarters early on that Tuesday morning. He gained access to the room by moving a portable toilet close to a hole in the wall. According to police spokesman, Sgt Gerald Sedibe, the man told the boy that his grandmother was looking for him. When he realised that this wasn’t true, he struggled with the man, who assaulted and raped him. The boy ran home to his mother, who lives close by. The man occasionally played with the children and stayed there. The boy’s description of events led to the revelation that that a further seven children and a 20-year-old woman were also raped at the centre. The 65-year-old man allegedly drugged the children with a white powder and green leaves before raping them. Only two of the children are permanent residents of the orphanage. The department has reportedly removed numerous children from Mama Esther’s Safe Haven, as it is not registered with the department due to not meeting its requirements. Masilela said they were expecting a response from the court soon. Read original story on lowvelder.co.za