ANC presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa has publicly backed Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor for deputy president, but Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu has emerged as the favourite for the position. Sisulu has received the nod from the Northern Cape and the Western Cape to be Ramaphosa’s deputy should he win the ANC presidency. However, Sisulu is still running her own campaign to become the next president of the ANC, and despite reports her campaign was slowing down, is still adamant that she can make an impact at the elective conference in December. She also slammed corruption within the ANC, stating that money was exchanging hands for the votes of branches ahead of December 16. “And as long as branches are being bought, we are sowing the seeds of corruption. The more money you have, the better chance you have at getting whatever you want, wherever you go. And throughout this period, candidates have had their hands glazed. It’s quite unfortunate,” Sisulu said. She has also not considered the possibility of becoming Ramaphosa’s deputy, instead choosing to focus all her energy on spreading her message across. “I haven’t sat down to think through the deputy presidents position. I have been selling a particular message, and that’s in the manifesto,” she told the Mail & Guardian. Sisulu hopes to reinstate the values that once made the ANC a respectable party. “Whether I make it as an ordinary member of the NEC [National Executive Committee] or nothing at all, we would have sent a particular message — that we need a change of narrative and deep introspection. A renewal and actually ensuring we can get back to the values that make us different from Cope [Congress of the People] or any other organisation. “I want to ensure that the ANC emerges in 2019 with a clear win and mandate from the people.” Sisulu refused to solely run for deputy, insisting on running her own campaign to take the top job, and also calling for Ramaphosa to be her deputy instead. Her public fight with secretary-general Gwede Mantashe reportedly sealed her fate. “I don’t see Sisulu coming back on this one. She displayed such a hostile posture towards Cyril and even lambasted Gwede Mantashe and those who were not going to help her in the Ramaphosa camp,” political analyst Dumisani Hlophe said. Despite being snubbed by Ramaphosa, Sisulu is forging ahead with her campaign to become first ANC and then SA president. – Caxton News Service Read original story on citizen.co.za