The top 10 finishers in the 2017 Spar Women’s Challenge 10km series, which culminated in the Johannesburg leg in October, were honoured at an awards ceremony at the Memoire Wedding and Function Venue in Muldersdrift on 7 November. The Open (competitive) category saw a fairy tale transition from the track for KPMG runner, Kesa Molotsane, who put on a dominant display throughout the Spar Grand Prix in her maiden road running event. Comprising a total of six races, the Spar Women’s Challenge took both fun and competitive runners through the streets of Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, Durban, Pretoria, Pietermaritzburg and Johannesburg. The top three finishers in the 2017 Spar Women’s Challenge Grand Prix are congratulated during an awards event at the Memoire Wedding and Functions Venue in Muldersdrift. Photo: Tshepiso Mametela Competitive runners completed about 60km of gruelling road running across some of the harshest terrains the Challenge had to offer. Molotsane, showed grit to eventually rack up 156 points across the six races – 10 points ahead of seasoned Nedbank runner, Irvette van Zyl, who accumulated 116 points to secure second position in the overall standings. Third place belonged to Cape Town-based fellow KPMG runner, Nolene Conrad, whose ambitions of securing a top-three berth saw her earning 105 points. The rest of the top 10 finishers garnered under 100 points, with 2015 Grand Prix winner, Lebogang Phalula and fellow teammate, Glenrose Xaba, securing positions four and five, with 99 and 94 points, respectively. Molotsane attributed her success to the support received from her family and running coach. The KPMG athlete said she’s considering a return stint to the Spar Women’s Challenge series next year, which kicks off in Cape Town on 25 March. “Coming back next year only depends on the plans that my coach and I have because we might venture onto the track and field scene,” she said. “This might take a lot of time on our side because we’re looking at different ventures in short distances. But I think I might come back just to show my appreciation.” Mark Prentice, marketing executive at Spar congratulated the top 10 athletes and said the group was committed to continuing running Joburg’s most beautiful race. He added that the 2018 series would have some new additions in an effort to keep it exciting. Athletics South Africa CEO, Richard Stander, Deputy Minister of Sport and Recreation, Gehardus Oosthuizen, Nedbank runner and second place finisher, Irvette van Zyl and marketing executive at Spar, Mike Prentice. Photo: Tshepiso Mametela We’re committed to keeping the Spar Women’s Challenge going, it’s a property that we’re very proud of, and works very well for our brand,” said Prentice. “It’s gone from strength to strength over the years, and with the launch of the 2018 race coming up in January, there’ll be a few tweaks just to make it contemporary and exciting.” Prentice made special mention of the 148 000 Spar customers who compete in the race every year. “The Grand Prix series is very important because it recognises the elite athletes and rewards them. But just as important for us are the other 148 000 of our customers that participate. So for us, it really is just to recognise and give an opportunity to the elite athletes, while giving all the people who support us throughout the year a safe and well-organised event that they can enjoy.” Athletics South Africa CEO, Richard Stander, Deputy Minister of Sport and Recreation, Gehardus Oosthuizen, KPMG runner and third place finisher, Nolene Conrad and marketing executive at Spar, Mike Prentice. Photo: Tshepiso Mametela   Read original story on rosebankkillarneygazette.co.za