Despite door-to-door visits to Hammanskraal residents yesterday, ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma refuted claims that she was campaigning and electioneering, reports The Citizen.Dlamini-Zuma and the ANC Women s League handed over a new home to 134-year-old Johanna Ramatse, alongside the controversial pastor Paseka Mboro in Stinkwater.Dlamini-Zuma is seen at the house of Johanna Ramatse (134) to pay her a visit during the official launch of the Molo Makhelwane campaign in Hammanskraal, 5 May 2017. Picture: Jacques NellesDlamini-Zuma is seen at the house of Johanna Ramatse (134) to pay her a visit during the official launch of the Molo Makhelwane campaign in Hammanskraal, 5 May 2017. Picture: Jacques NellesThe former African Union chairperson also launched the Molo Makhelwane campaign, a programme to promote neighbourhood friendship and cohesion among the community.But she quickly dismissed questions by the media, who asked whether her visit was part of campaigning ahead of the ANC s elective conference in December.Dlamini-Zuma during the official launch of the Molo Makhelwane campaign in Hammanskraal, 5 May 2017. Picture: Jacques Nelles Who are the people saying this is campaigning? The people here are not saying that. We can t stop assisting people because there are elections coming up. If a grandmother is not getting a grant, we must help. Whether elections or not, we are going to continue creating a better life for our people. Dlamini-Zuma also visited a local primary school where she encouraged the Grade 7 pupils to focus on their studies, as they were the country s future.A cheerful crowd of women geared in ANCWL T-shirts sang in excitement for Dlamini-Zuma when she entered Ramatse s new home with Mboro, who followed behind in his R1.7 million BMW i8. Ramatse s dilapidated home was refurbished by the pastor who repaired a leaking roof and collapsing walls.Prophet Paseka Mboro Motsoeneng speaks to his body guard from inside his BMW i8 during the official launch of the Molo Makhelwane campaign in Hammanskraal, 5 May 2017. Picture: Jacques NellesMboro, who recently stirred controversy for praying for fired Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza, echoed Dlamini-Zuma s sentiments when he too dismissed ideas that he was supporting her as presidential candidate. When I came here for the first time, it was not to campaign but to help an old lady going through a crisis. When I was called in, the house was bad. There was no bed and everything fell apart. The ANC Women s League invited me and I came to thank God and to open the house. Prophet Paseka Mboro Motsoeneng speqaks to ANC woman s league and community members during the official launch of the Molo Makhelwane campaign in Hammanskraal, 5 May 2017. Picture: Jacques NellesA confused and joyful Ramatse was elated to have Dlamini-Zuma in her home, asking her: But how did you know I was still alive? According to her identity book, she was born on January 1, 1883.Dlamini-Zuma is seen at the house of Johanna Ramatse (134) to pay her a visit during the official launch of the Molo Makhelwane campaign in Hammanskraal, 5 May 2017. Picture: Jacques Nelles Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za