Veteran journalist and author of the controversial book, The President’s Keepers, Jacques Pauw attracted scores of book lovers who wanted to meet the author and have their books signed at the Brooklyn mall on Thursday evening. Pauw told those in attendance, which included former finance minister Pravin Gordhan, that he would not reveal his sources. Pauw said he was not afraid of being arrested following allegations of classified information that was leaked in his book. This comes after reports that a complaint had been laid against the author by the State Security Agency (SSA) at the Lyttelton police station. Hawks spokesperson, brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said the two cases relate to the possible leaking of classified information of which investigations would be carried out by their organised crime unit. Mulaudzi said no warrant of arrest had been issued against Pauw. Pauw said he would be consulting a lawyer today following the complaints laid against him and whether he gets arrested, a bail application could be made. The South African Revenue Services (Sars) has also accused Pauw of contravening the Tax Administration Act by publishing taxpayers’ information, which he denied. “Nobody gets charged, if you think about it – I’m the one going to be charged. If you think about the massive evidence, the body of evidence in the Gupta emails for example, there is prima facie evidence of money laundering, fraud and corruption, but nothing is happening.” Pauw said Jacob Zuma had destroyed the country’s law enforcement agencies and this has hindered the efforts of fighting organised crime and that the crime in the country has heightened. “Nothing is happening because Jacob Zuma has destroyed the law enforcement agencies to protect himself, his family and friends. So nothing happens.” “There is no consequence. There is absolutely no consequences. Can you think of a major crime syndicate that was recently busted? The crime intelligence [unit of the South African Police Service] is in shambles,” said Pauw. Read original story on rekordeast.co.za