The Democratic Alliance (DA) led coalition in a number of three metros has said it still had its fingers crossed for the EFF, which voted them into power, to formally join the arrangement, but were not currently negotiating in that regard.  Notably absent from the panel were United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader Bantu Holomisa and a representative from the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP). DA leader Mmusi Maimane explained that while the firebrand king-makers shared various values with members of the coalition, such as prioritising the fight against corruption, the EFF had its own strong and clear positions that precluded them from entering into a formal marriage. “I think the discussions with the EFF have been helpful in that regard that. [Formally joining a coalition] is not a position that I think the [EFF] want to take, neither is it something that we advance, because they made it clear upfront where they stand, and I think we have made it clear we have got a programme that goes. That’s why the EFF don’t occupy any executive positions and that is their stated position.”  Freedom Front Plus (FF+) leader Pieter Groenwald noted that one of the outstanding issues the EFF and the coalition could not agree on was land reform. Cope leader Mosiua Lekota added the coalition hoped that in time, the EFF may soften its stance on their policy to remain in opposition and vote only on issues it agreed with.  “The EFF were particularly cautious. They did not want to commit to all these issues in the coalition agreement they said they will come with us on an issue-by-issue basis. That is good because it has enabled the coalition to take power and exercise it on those issues that they were comfortable about. “We are convinced that as time goes on, they are going to find they can serve the people even better if they came into the coalition in full force and if they participated in the implementation of the policies that we have agreed on so there is not panic about that issue at this time.” – Caxton News Service  Read original story on citizen.co.za