Rudy Nkgadima THERE seems to be conflicting views, regarding President Jacob Zuma’s announcement that government will subsidise free higher education for poor working class students. The aftermath of that announcement has left students, parents, education departments and universities confused on how the process will work. Universities SA (USAF) has expressed concern about the President’s free education statement issued on 16 December 2017, saying vice-chancellors were never consulted about the Heher Commission Report which investigated the possibility of free higher education. University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN), Acting Executive Director Normah Zondo said they welcomed the announcement by the President for free higher education for the children of the poor and the working class and said it was a good step towards increasing access to higher education in South Africa. “Only applicants who have applied on time, have met all the requirements for their chosen qualifications and have received offers will be allowed entry into the university. The university does not have capacity to accept walk-in applicants in 2018 as applications for admissions were closed on 30 September 2017. The university received more than 91002 applications for the 8776 spaces available in the first-year undergraduate academic programmes. As at end of November 4,855 provisional offers were made to applicants. The remaining number of offers will be communicated following the release of the National Senior Certificate, Grade 12 results,” said Zondo. Zondo said registration for UKZN would take place online and from 9 January 2018. “Students can register from home or in dedicated labs on campus. First-year students who wish to use this service have been advised to come to campus where assistance on the use of this facility will be provided. We have been oversubscribed with applications for 2018. We will communicate if there are any available spaces before the end of the registration process,” said Zondo. Speaking at Higher Education media briefing on Thursday, Minister of Higher Education Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize said the policy decision communicated by the President, brought the country closer to what is in the Freedom Charter and constitution. “The announcement by the President was not meant to disrupt the normal function of the autonomy of universities and TVET colleges. We can guarantee that all applicants with a firm offer from a university will be assisted and those who did not apply for NSFAS will be identified by our system. At this moment we do not have number on how many students will benefit,” he said. Meanwhile, the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET) said it was calling on Grade 12 learners who passed matric in 2017 but had not yet secured a place at a university or college to apply immediately using the Department’s Central Applications Clearing House (CACH) system. Read original story on northglennews.co.za