A Richards Bay mountain biker is still recovering in the intensive care unit at the Netcare The Bay Hospital after she was attacked by two robbers while competing in the Empangeni leg of the Bell Big 5 MTB Series last week Sunday, reports the Zululand Observer.Son Coleman sustained serious concussion and a broken pelvis in the assault by the two men, who absconded with her bike and cellphone.The main sponsor of the event, Bell Equipment, has initiated an investigation into the incident. What was in every respect a fantastic family event was marred by the unfortunate incident when one of the ladies in the 50km race was allegedly ambushed along the route, sustaining injuries and concussion. Other riders and the Bell support helicopter were soon on hand and able to transport her to receive medical attention. With the assistance of the local community, the missing property have been recovered. Both the organisers and sponsors are saddened by this isolated event, and wish her a speedy recovery. A thorough investigation by the authorities now needs to take its course and it is hoped that the outcome of this will send a clear message, and act as a deterrent, to those who wish to prey on those involved in community events. Fellow MTB riders also sent their best wishes for Coleman s recovery. This was a very unfortunate incident and the organisers spent many days putting together an otherwise superb event, said Piet Calitz. Owing to the nature of mountain biking there is always risk at any event that someone could be mugged or otherwise injured. This event was well managed with plenty marshals en route, and since I was at the scene moments after it happened, I am aware that there was speedy backup from the Bell helicopter as well as a roaming motorbike, and, of course, fellow riders who rallied around to support her. Fortunately these incidents are few and far between and we can only hope that it stays that way. Fellow rider Simon Griffith added that riding in groups in upcoming races would hopefully deter opportunists from launching attacks on female cyclists.However, for years The Citizen has been reporting on how cyclists have said they believe attacks and robberies on pedalling enthusiasts have increased.In October 2013, three cyclists in Pretoria narrowly escaped death when they were shot at in two separate incidents on the same road the last two weeks. Another cyclist was allegedly stabbed with a knife.The then vice-chairman of the cycling club Speke, Kobie Marais, reportedly said, attacks had increased: It really seems to be getting worse. Your bike being stolen or physical injury is not as bad as the psychological effect violent attacks have on cyclists. In December last year, a man brandishing a knife chased a mountain bike rider on Table Mountain and made off with the rider s bike and sunglasses.There have also been numerous reports of cyclists who are the victims of hit-and-runs. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on zululandobserver.co.za