A provincial cabinet reshuffle is looming in the Northern Cape after the new ANC provincial leadership announced a radical redeployment of MPLs, including members of Premier Sylvia Lucas’ provincial executive council. In its first show of power since being elected in May, the ANC provincial leadership announced changes it said were aimed at strengthening the party’s capacity in the provincial legislature, the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces. The changes were necessitated by the resignations from parliament of former transport minister Dipuo Peters and former energy minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson after they were dismissed in the last national cabinet reshuffle. The PEC, led by provincial chairperson Zamani Saul, moved Namakwa mayor and deputy provincial chairperson Bentley Vass, ANC National Assembly back-benchers Patrick Mabilo and Mase Manopole to the provincial legislature. MEC for cooperative governance, human settlements and traditional affairs Alvin Botes, a Lucas ally, is to go to the National Council of Provinces. Mabilo would replace Botes in the provincial legislature. Saul, Gina Cloete and Eunice Bojosi would go to parliament. Observers believe the changes are the first indication that Saul and provincial secretary Deshi Ngxanga are now in full control in the province. Lucas would have to comply with the leadership’s decision, including implementing a Cabinet reshuffle. A source said Botes’ redeployment was meant to break his bond with Lucas while moving Vass and Mabilo would strengthen Saul’s hand as they’re his allies. Saul also relies on his former chief lobbyist, Mac Jack. Then finance minister Jack and transport MEC Pauline Williams were fired by Lucas just before the provincial conference in May, but the party forced her to reinstate them. “As long as Jack is in the province, Saul does not worry. Also by going to parliament, Zamani is positioning himself closer to the CR-17 (Cyril Ramaphosa) campaign group at national level.” The premier’s spokesperson, Bronwyn Thomas-Abrahams, did not respond to a query sent to her about the rumoured Cabinet reshuffle. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter Read original story on citizen.co.za