Acting City of Cape Town executive mayor Alderman Ian Neilson has said the fire that raged in Imizamo Yethu, Hout Bay, is believed to be one of the worst informal settlement fires that we have experienced to date .By Monday, the fire had spread to Karbonkelberg, Sandy Bay and Llandudno.On Tuesday morning, Volunteer Wildfire Services (VWS) tweeted that there were cooler temperatures and lower winds, but warned that a shift in winds could be problematic. The nonprofit, fully volunteer company, further tweeted that a number of hotspot areas remained in Karbonkelberg and crews from Table Mountain National Park, VWS and Cape Peninsula Fire Protection Association had worked throughout Monday night trying to extinguish the blaze.Marginally cooler in @capetown and lower winds will be a help to the fires currently burning, but wind shifts could be problematic later. https://t.co/RVxOA0xDf9&mdash; VWS Wildfires (@vwsfires) March 14, 2017A number of hot spots remain on the #KarbonkelbergFire but crews from @TableMountainNP, @vwsfires and @CPFPA1 worked through the night. pic.twitter.com/NLUwdWKEoR&mdash; VWS Wildfires (@vwsfires) March 14, 2017Neilson said in a statement, published on the City of Cape Town website: It would appear that 4 500 structures were razed and approximately 15 000 residents have been affected. Our deepest condolences go out to the family of the three victims who died in the fire. The cause of the fire is undetermined at this stage. City of Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille also added her voice to the Imizamo Yethu situation, saying on Twitter that although she was abroad on official business she had been monitoring it closely and was directing operations with the mayoral committee of the City of Cape Town (Mayco).I am currently abroad on official business. I have been monitoring the IY situation closely. I am directing operations with the Mayco.&mdash; Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) March 14, 2017The City&#39;s Acting Mayor, Ian Neilson &amp; Mayco member Xanthea Limberg were in IY on Sunday morning. Latest statement: https://t.co/KeJ2DMalux&mdash; Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) March 14, 2017According to Neilson, the City and its civic partners were working nonstop to provide relief to our residents in Imizamo Yethu after the devastating fire which occurred over the weekend and that officials remained onsite.He said it was expected that the City s solid waste management department would take at least a week to clear debris and that the site needs to be levelled and redesigned, which would also take about a week, while water and electricity services were being reinstated and should be resumed soon.Further, the City s informal settlements management department was verifying the legitimate fire-affected beneficiaries, based on a recent survey. Due to the scale of the fire, it may take some time before all residents receive their building kits, however, the City is doing everything in our power to ensure that this happens as quickly as possible, said Neilson. It is foreseen that the City will attempt to establish several large-scale reblocked areas which will be surrounded by fire breaks, pedestrian walkways, and peripheral water, sanitation and electricity services. The City will, in this way, be able to enhance access to emergency and other services. However, due to steep terrain, the construction of the access routes will require the cooperation of the community to make the required spaces available. The City has discussed this with the community and its leaders. Neilson further pointed to the donations that have been collected and distributed. From a humanitarian relief perspective, the City s Disaster Risk Management Centre is coordinating efforts through its nongovernmental partners: the Red Cross Society, the Mustadafin Foundation and Historically Disadvantaged Individuals (HDI), said Nelison.He listed the following items that had been distributed:He added the Thula Thula Foundation was managing community donations that were received from the public.Many people have taken to social media to circulate messages of how community members could assist with the donations for the fire.According to Neilson, donations most needed are: nonperishable food items, wet wipes, disposable nappies (all sizes), water, toiletries, school clothing, baby clothing and stationery.You can help the thousands left homeless after the #ImizamoYethuFire. Click here to help https://t.co/gUXM1Ja43r pic.twitter.com/A886VQp7Yk&mdash; GivenGain Foundation (@GivenGain) March 13, 2017Well done #CAPETOWN! community spirit&#39;s incredible! All #imizamoyethu donations can still be dropped at AMBLESIDE SCHOOL in #HoutBay #ctlove pic.twitter.com/ZYJJ63iLrv&mdash; Cathy Steed (@Cathy_Steed) March 13, 2017CAPE TOWN HOW TO HELP HOUT BAY FIRE VICTIMS: pic.twitter.com/rpXqYAzQFe&mdash; cash me outside (@Jadore_Thembi) March 13, 2017The Western Cape government on Twitter further thanked everyone who assisted in the relief efforts for those who were affected by the devastating fire:Thank you to everyone involved in relief efforts for those affected by the devastating fire in the Hout Bay area! ( : @Sullphotography) pic.twitter.com/6sXeJp3on0&mdash; Western Cape Gov (@WesternCapeGov) March 13, 2017An image of the raging Karbonkelberg fire on Sunday was captured by Taryn Schambacher and shared by Hout Bay News on Twitter:KarbonkelBerg fire, Hout Bay, captured from Llandudno side by Taryn Schambacher. pic.twitter.com/kORrPCeemy&mdash; HoutBayNews (@HoutBayNews) March 12, 2017 Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za