The fire situation in Eden has claimed the life of a 63-year old man near Concordia. This brings the confirmed number of fatalities in the area to six, reports the Knysna-Plett Herald.An additional five people have been evacuated to hospital with serious injuries and their condition remains serious. The fire line in the Eden district currently extends over an area of roughly 100 kilometers.In the Knysna area the following areas were being evacuated at 6pm on Saturday:A number aerial resources that were grounded on Saturday morning due to strong winds gusting at 97km/h, however, the wind subsided in the late afternoon on Saturday and aerial resources have subsequently taken to the air to help extinguish the fire.There were eleven aircrafts on the scene, including three SANDF Oryx helicopters and four Working on Fire helicopters.An additional bomber fixed wing plane was expected to arrive from Nelspruit on Sunday.Sedgefield division:Early on Saturday morning the fire jumped the N2 and was burning in the direction of Buffalo Bay. Rural houses have been evacuated and are placed at the Buffalo Bay community hall. The fire has subsequently been contained.Bitou:Fire at Jakkalskraal, Roodefontein, Kranshoek and Jukani was spreading towards Plettenberg Bay airfield, however it had been contained.George:At Hoekwil / Serpentine Heights, the fire is contained crews are monitoring the situation;MedicalThe Provincial Department of Health has sent four additional doctors to assist at Knysna. Additional oxygen masks and cylinders have been provided. A 24-hour medical facility has been opened at Plettenberg Bay. The Department of Health is investigating the opening up of the clinic in Plettenberg Bay but is dependent on the access to the clinic as well as the situation.Civil ServicesBetween Monday and Thursday next week (12-15 June) SASSA will be at Hornlee Hall, Masifonde Library, Dam se Bos; Sedgefield and Karatara to issue people with new pension cards. Capacity for this will also be increased. However, the exact details and the confirmation of the venues can only be provided on Monday, 11 June.There will also be a Service Delivery Outreach Programme on the 28 June 2017 at the venues mentioned above whereby individuals who could not get new cards between the 12-15 June can get their cards on that day.Home Affairs have indicated that they need an updated list of displaced beneficiaries who have lost their documentation. Displaced people currently residing with family and friends are urged to access the home affairs services for lost documents.On Saturday evening, the South African Weather Services issued the following advisory for Sunday: Partly cloudy and cool conditions are expected on Sunday with moderate north-westerly winds (10-20 km/h) and no rain is expected for the region.All efforts will be undertaken to contain the fire line as far as possible. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on www.knysnaplettherald.com