A Kruger National Park (KNP) ranger, Amos Mzimba, has pleaded guilty on harassing an elephant while driving a white Toyota in February, Lowvelder reports.The incident made international headlines after photographs of it went viral in March.Mzimba recently faced a disciplinary process and pleaded guilty. As a sergeant with Ranger Services he works in the anti-poaching team and is regularly on patrol in the KNP. He has been given a final written warning, which means should he be found guilty of a similar offence any time in the next six months he will be dismissed, said William Mabasa, acting head of communications of SANParks.The incident was photographed by an erstwhile lecturer in photography, Joan Ryder Rathband, who lives in the UK. She has since requested that it be removed from Facebook.She wrote on Facebook that she was about to leave the park from Kruger Gate when an elephant crossed the road in front of a car with the registration number HKJ 003 MP, at 17:17 on February 27.She witnessed the great speed at which the Toyota was travelling, as well as that the driver actually moved off the road to try and hit the elephant. The driver of the Toyota then returned to the road and drove through the gate.When told about the outcome of the hearing on Monday, she said it was unbelievable . I find it horrifying that he would still be employed after this horrible deed, she said.Rey Thakhuli, general manager: media, public and stakeholder relations of SANParks said the employee has a long, loyal and unblemished service record with SANParks (over 17 years), with no prior infringements. He was very embarrassed, remorseful and apologetic about the incident. He was given a final written warning for negligent driving and inconsiderate driving, said Thakhuli.He emphasised that KNP management immediately acted on the information provided on Facebook. This was followed up and investigated. Mzimba was on leave at the time and could not be contacted. The incident was discussed with him as soon as he arrived back on duty. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on lowvelder.co.za