THE family of Njabulo Mankayi finally have closure after the 10-year-old’s body was found at 10am today (Monday, 13 November) by a Transnet employee, after he went missing along with his best friend, Luyanda Msomi, earlier last week. The two boys, grade three pupils of Clairwood Primary School, were last seen boarding a bus to go home after school last Tuesday. The body of Njabulo’s friend, Luyanda Msomi was found in Dove Crescent, Montclair on Saturday, 11 November. Communities surrounding Montclair gathered with the search teams to find the little boy. Among them were Bluff residents and founder of Community Orientated Policing (COP), Rake Jeeves and licensed drone operator, Deon Lottering who shared their experience of helping in the search. Lottering described the ordeal as heartbreaking to witness, as Njabulo’s family watched helplessly while the rescue teams searched the canal. Two women and a man were arrested in connection with the murders the same day that Luyanda’s body was found and will be charged with kidnapping and murder. Police say they will appear in court soon. Jeeves said words failed to explain how heartbreaking the crime was. “All I could think of was how young they were. I was really hoping for a miracle, that we would find him (Luyanda) alive. I’m too angry at this tragedy. These children were only 10-years-old and were not even given a chance to experience life. I just pray they didn’t suffer,” he said sadly. Aerial view of the search and rescue on Saturday ER24 rescue unit’s Leo Fourie was contacted to assist in Dove Crescent, where Luyanda’s body was found. “I didn’t know at the time that it was the body of a 10-year-old we were looking for and I thought wow, who would murder a child? “It’s so wrong. But in my work we have to put emotions aside and do our job. I hiked 15-metres up a hill to retrieve the boy’s body. We located him and put his tiny body in a stokes basket. He was still in his school uniform”, said Fourie. He was asked to help search for the second body in the M7 canal along with the canine unit on Saturday. Due to the fading light, they called off the search until Sunday morning. “When we donned our wetsuits and waded through the canals, all I could think about was his family, waiting to find out what had happened to their little boy. Our main job is to search and rescue and if we can give the families closure, then so be it,” he added. Read original story on southlandssun.co.za