South African National Parks (SANParks) has rejected claims by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) that the remains of people found in a graveyard in Bushbuckridge are those of dead poachers killed in the Kruger National Park (KNP), Lowvelder reports. The allegations are devoid of substance, said Mr William Mabasa, acting head of communications of SANParks.In its turn the EFF has rejected SANParks claims that they ever even made such allegations. This reckless original statement by the EFF should be rejected with the contempt it deserves. This is clearly a political ploy that seeks to score points at the expense of government as we continue to battle wildlife crime, Minister of Environmental Affairs Dr Edna Molewa said in a release issued by SANParks.Mr Cyril Chuene, senior member of the Mpumalanga EFF, told Lowvelder they had made no such allegations. It would be inhumane of us to do something like that. It is not in the culture of the EFF. There is no truth in these allegations that we are spreading such rumours, said Chuene.He, in turn, accused the minister of trying to score political points with the communities living along the border of the park. The ANC sees us as a threat in those communities, because we are saying to the chiefs we want a speedy recovery of all land claims and especially also those members of communities who have already made land claims in the KNP. We are encouraging people with existing land claims in the Kruger not to take the monetary compensation offered but to ask for the land, Chuene explained.He said they planned a march to the office of the premier next Thursday about the slow pace of land claims being processed.In the same SANParks statement, the Mpumalanga department of health is said to have claimed the Saselani cemetery in question as containing the remains of people it could not identify and were given pauper burials by the department.It is unclear how many graves there are.Rey Thakuli, head of media and communications at SANParks, told Lowvelder the EFF was clearly unaware of the facts if they questioned the minister s statement. If they want to do the honourable thing, they will distance themselves from these claims and give an apology to the communities concerned where the rangers are presiding. These are our rhino fighters they are talking about, said Thakuli.He pointed out that in each incident in the KNP involving contact with armed poachers, the police attended to the crime scene and conducted a full investigation. A forensic specialist also attended all cases. The EFF should respect our rangers human rights and not make allegations like these. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on lowvelder.co.za