EFF leader Julius Malema at a keynote address at the SA Property Owners Association (Sapoa) Convention was critical of property owners not being vocal and active enough in the fight against state and private sector corruption, reports The Citizen. We need a corrupt-free government, he said, to allow black people to get more involved in the ownership of properties, and not be used as fronts by white people.He said institutionalised corruption needed to be rooted out with strict penalties against collusion in the property and building sector.He was once again scathing of the President Jacob Zuma government, saying that the EFF had been the only party fighting the current kleptocratic administration which will run our resources dry . The EFF has been the only political party in South Africa which, from its formation, highlighted the fact that we are led by a criminal syndicate and gangsters. He spoke about the alleged theft of R17 billion at Transnet that he had earlier attempted to expose at a press conference. He said all state-owned companies were officially captured .Malema told the gathering: Many of you when we are engaged in the battle against corruption you don t even contribute because you are scared that your corruption will be exposed with this gangster regime. We want South Africans to unite against corruption. There must be a war against corruption. He said the EFF had been fighting legal battles against the state s corruption with money they did not have. We take them to court. But you have all the money. You control properties in this country, and you know this corruption will collapse the state. And yet you do not fight this corruption. You allow the penniless people to fight corruption on your behalf. You don t even make a contribution to the EFF or other parties engaged in the fight against corruption, he said to applause. You fight corruption on Facebook, Twitter and in air-conditioned offices. Even when we call you to the picket lines, you don t come. He warned that people with money had the most to lose and he called on people with resources to support the EFF. When we entered parliament, you said the EFF is disruptive but today you are hoping the EFF will fight for you. He defended their allegations of corruption as authentic. Till today, not a single one of them has taken us to court they will never do that, he charged because they knew it was true. If the private sector is genuine about fighting corruption, put your money so that we defeat this corruption. He said they should invest in the EFF, because it was future.Malema had earlier said the EFF would never betray the struggle to reclaim land so that they could answer future generations when they asked: What happened to the land that was stolen from our forefathers? Patriotic white people must stop being so sensitive, Malema told the gathering. There is no ignoring the landlessness of black people, as you have all done since 1994. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za