The national taxi strike that was expected to bring all forms of transportation to a standstill on July 12 has been called off.This is according to a report by Jacaranda FM which states that the South African National Taxi Council, (Santaco) said the strike had been &#8220;suspended&#8221; pending the outcome of Friday&#8217;s meeting with transport minister Joe Maswanganyi.The report further stated that during the meeting, Santaco hoped to provide possible solutions for how public transport could be made efficient.EarlierA national taxi strike is expected to take place on July 12, Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga has warned, reports the Centurion Rekord.The SA Taxi Council (Santaco) issued a warning on Sunday, saying the protest would bring all forms of transportation to a standstill. Please make alternative arrangements because the strike would disrupt all commuting in the country, said Santaco. It would be advisable to stay off the road. Msimanga said the strike would be on a larger scale than the previous one, which took place in June. It will be a national strike and likely to bring everything to a standstill, said Msimanga.He said more information would be provided closer to the time.Tshwane metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said it was too early to tell which routes would be affected. We cannot confirm or deny anything at this stage, but we have a meeting on Tuesday (today) and we hope it will shed some light on the strike. Last month, taxi operators embarked on a taxi strike that left commuters around Gauteng stranded.Major highways were barricaded, disrupting people from getting to work and students from writing their exams.Santaco said the previous demonstration was a dry run for the countrywide strike scheduled for July 12.During the protest, taxi operators handed memorandums to SA taxi in Midrand and Toyota in Durban.The memorandums said Toyota was making billions of rands but was not contributing back to the taxi industry. Out of the R7 billion they make a year, 80% of that comes from the taxi industry but they refuse to empower the industry, said Santaco spokesperson Thabiso Molelekwa.Molelekwa said they demanded the high cost of minibuses be significantly reduced. SA taxi charges very high interest, and most taxis get repossessed as a result of inflated monthly payments. The Northglen News further reported that the Santaco KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson, Mandla Mzelemu, confirmed on Tuesday that the strike was still scheduled for next week, unless they met with government officials before the date. All taxi operators throughout the country will be marching to the legislatures of all the provinces in the country, he said.In May, Durban taxi operators brought traffic to a standstill and blocked several main routes into the city.Santaco members marched to the Toyota plant situated in Prospecton, Isipingo, south of Durban to demand that Toyota decrease the cost of the Toyota Quantum minibus taxis.Mzelemu said they would also be demanding that the government subsidise the taxi industry, and that the old operating licences or permits be reinstated. The current indefinite period permits have no value, he said.Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said they were aware of the looming strike and confirmed that police would be out in full force.He urged the protesters to act within the constitution. Anyone who is caught obstructing traffic on any roads will face the full might of the law, said Zwane. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on