The planned anti-Zuma protests got under way swiftly on Friday morning as protesters took to the streets around the country in a bid to put pressure on Jacob Zuma to step down as president.Gauteng:Traffic was severely affected on Beyers Naud Drive near the N1 Highway as protesters blocked one lane going south near the Roosevelt Park substation, the Randburg Sun reports.Lots of very loud hooting #ZumaWillFall @randburg_sun @OUTASA @RoodepoortNorth on Beyers Naude pic.twitter.com/FAUDG0zuLm&mdash; Ashtyn Mackenzie (@AshtynMackenzie) April 7, 2017In the suburb of Sunninghill, in the northern suburbs of Johannesburg, the residents came together in Kilindini Park on the corner of Kilindini and Nanyuki roads to protest, reports the Fourways Review.Cars travelling past the protest hooted their support, and the numbers of protesters were increasing.The residents of Sunninghill chanted: Zuma must fall; better country for all. They have formed a miniature human chain as a community, highlighting that they would stand together and let their voices be heard and created a banner saying: It s enough already. Anti-Zuma protest in Sunninghill, Johannesburg. Picture: Fourways ReviewIn Craighall Park, also in the northern suburbs of Johannesburg, residents took to the streets to protest against Zuma, reports the Rosebank Killarney Gazette.Joyce Jabane and Sadheer Maharaj on corner of Jan Smuts and Buckingham Lane. Picture: Rosebank Killarney GazetteProtester Penny Bramwell-Jones said: I am marching because I have had enough. This is a beautiful country. It s time for everybody to stand together and speak up. I am tired of Zuma stealing from us. The protester further alleged: All of our tax money has been fiddled away for your own selfish ways. We ve had enough of you and have no respect for you. Zuma you are junk. Joyce Jabane said she was unhappy with Zuma. I don t want us to end up like Zimbabwe because we are the best part of Africa. I took a half day off because I can not just sit and complain on Twitter and do nothing. I am not immigrating because of this. In Benoni, Ekurhuleni, the Benoni City Times reported from the Stand Up Benoni protest, which took place on O Reilly Merry Street.Also in the east of Johannesburg, residents from Edenvale and surrounding areas added their voices to the numerous #sawillrise demonstrations across the country, reports the Bedfordview Edenvale News.The march kicked off from Horwood s Farm and will end at the Edenvale Library where a memorandum would be handed over to an official from local government.Linda Mckenzie, a concerned community member, said the march was a peaceful demonstration.KwaZulu-Natal protests:Hundreds of residents, including civil societies and the Democratic Alliance, gathered along the Durban promenade on Friday morning, calling for Jacob Zuma to step down, reports the Northglen News.The march is part of a nationwide anti-Zuma protest in response to Zuma s much-criticised Cabinet reshuffle and axing of the then finance minister, Pravin Gordhan. The civic indignation was exacerbated by S&amp;P Global Ratings downgrading of the country s credit rating to junk status.Some buildings in Durban have also put up posters displaying their unhappiness. Picture: Northglen NewsJohn Steenhuisen, chief whip of the Democratic Alliance, is expected to address the crowd, many of who are carrying signs and placards voicing their unhappiness at the state of the country.Watch the anti-Zuma march as it begins in Durban:In Ballito, crowds gathered at Compensation Drive between La Montagne and the Balvista Centre as the anti-Zuma demonstration got under way, the North Coast Courier reported.Protesters sported their South African flags and anti-Zuma placards.Compensation Drive was closed to traffic as the demonstration got under way, however, Ballito Drive was still open.Ballito joins #FreedomFriday. Picture: North Coast CourierWestern Cape:Knysna residents also took to the streets on Friday morning to express their outrage about the actions of President Jacob Zuma, reports the Knysna-Plett Herald.The mood was festive, with a band playing as protesters gathered at Memorial Square.Knysna speaker Georlene Wolmarans is one of the many people who lined the pavements.The mayor of Knysna, Eleanore Bouw-Spies, will not be joining Black Friday in Knysna, but said the following: Unfortunately, I will not be able to physically join the national cry to have Zuma removed, but believe me I am with all our residents in this call. Stand tall, stand strong and show the world that we are serious about this call. Please put your best foot forward with discipline. I leave with the words from our great Madiba during a coast conference back in 1993: If the ANC does to you what the apartheid government did to you, then you must do to the ANC what you did to the Apartheid government.&#8217; Knysna residents congregating at Memorial Square. Picture: Knysna-Plett HeraldProtesters in George also took to the streets and received a lot of support from passing motorists who shared their enthusiasm by hooting and shouting as they drove past.At the top of York Street, protesters from the DA, local businesses and individuals who came in their own capacity also picketed.Protesters picketing in their own capacity at Unity Park at the top of York Street. Picture: Michelle PienaarLimpopo:In Tzaneen, Kenney Brokers shut their doors for the day to support the national shutdown. Here is what the owner, Alan Kenney has to say: Caxton News ServiceRead original story on