The African National Congress Women’s League (ANCWL) has welcomed President Jacob Zuma’s decision to appoint a commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture, saying that all those found guilty of corruption should face the full wrath of the law. ANCWL secretary general, Meokgo Matuba, on Thursday said the league has consistently called for a full-scale investigation into allegations of state capture instead of a “narrow politically motivated” probe. “ANCWL supports the fight against corruption in government and private sector without fear or favour and firmly believes that the commission of inquiry will expose all those involved in fraud and corruption by capturing parts of the state … ,” Matuba said. “Now that the commission of Inquiry into state capture is about to resume, the ANCWL is hoping that all with evidence will make submissions … the ANCWL is confident that the commission of Inquiry will not be influenced by any prior judgements passed through courts of public opinions which were instituted by neoliberal media houses.” On 13 December, the Pretoria High Court held that Zuma must personally pay the costs of his bid to block the release of then Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s report into state capture in 2016. Zuma said he was taking further legal advice on the prosecution of this appeal. Zuma on Tuesday announced that he had appointed Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo to head the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. Matuba said that the ANCWL was also supporting Zuma’s decision to appeal the court ruling that he was personally liable for the legal costs for challenging certain parts of the state of capture report. The ANCWL also echoed Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s call for “broad” terms of reference to include all the state-owned entities. They want the probe to extend to pre1994 before the ANC took power. However, Madonsela has warned against making the inquiry too broad, saying this could make the process too lengthy. – African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za