He’s had a love-hate relationship with the South African cricketing public over the last 12 months but AB de Villiers wasted little time showing all why his return to Test cricket is such a big deal. The Proteas’ dazzling stroke-maker, who made 53 against Zimbabwe in his first Test for about 18 months, continued his renaissance with a fine, unbeaten 59 to guide his side to 107/3 at lunch on the first day of the opening Test against India at Newlands on Friday. What that half-century doesn’t immediately reveal is how important De Villiers’ contribution has been. The 33-year-old came in at 7/2 and had to watch South Africa slump to 12/3 as Bhuvneshwar Kumar wreaked havoc. One of the best swing bowlers around, the 27-year-old produced a magnificent burst. After sending his first two deliveries down the leg-side, his bowled the perfect ball to Dean Elgar – one that seamed away off an awkward length. Kumar was in business again the next over when he brought one back into Aiden Markram (5) after the young opener tried to bail out of a defensive prod forward. A review for the LBW wouldn’t have helped him. And then Hashim Amla (3) played a loose drive on the back foot, gifting Kumar a sensational opening spell of 3/7 in his first four overs. But De Villiers wasn’t going to be bogged down. He swung the tide by hitting Kumar for four boundaries in his fifth over, two drives and two cuts for four. Ably supported by captain Faf du Plessis (33 off 67), playing his first competitive game for 11 weeks, the Proteas gained momentum. De Villiers, to date, has only faced 65 balls with 11 fours. But his job is hardly done. Proteas: Dean Elgar, Aiden Markram, Hashim Amla, Faf du Plessis (c), AB de Villiers, Quinton de Kock, Vernon Philander, Keshav Maharaj, Dale Steyn, Kagiso Rabada, Morne Morkel. India: Murali Vijay, Shikhar Dhawan, Chesteshwar Pujara, Virat Kohli (c), Ajinkya Rahane, Wriddhiman Saha, Hardik Pandya, Ravi Ashwin, Mohammed Shami, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Jasprit Bumrah.   For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Read original story on citizen.co.za