Two traffic wardens of Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) who were captured on video “lunching” on money have been suspended for three months, Kempton Express reports. “They were served suspension letters and were instructed to deliver their uniforms to the EMPD stores. Their appointment cards were also taken,” Chief Superintendent Wilfred Kgasago, metro police spokesperson, said. “An internal affairs investigation is under way on this matter,” he added. A video, showing the two Thokoza-based men in full uniform, went viral on social media, and the video shows the two officers in full uniform listening to loud music from the boot of a car. Their lunch packs are littered with banknotes, which they show off and use as both serviettes and toothpicks. In the meantime, the SA Municipal Workers’ Union (Samwu) officials said they would defend the officers against “illegal charges”. In a statement issued on Wednesday by Samwu Ekurhuleni regional secretary Chris Mavhunda, the union stated they had written to the city manager demanding that the presuspension hearing against two of its members should not continue.  “First and foremost, according to our knowledge and evidence at our disposal, EMPD does not have a Chief of Police. The individual who has served our members with these illegal notices of suspension is illegitimate and has no authority to do so as there is no contract of employment between the City and any individual for the post of Chief of Police,” Mavhunda said. “The perception has been created in the media, particularly by the Minister of Police, Fikile Mbalula, that the officers are ‘thugs’ while they have not committed any crime. “We condemn Minister Mbalula for jumping the gun and fuelling speculation that the money the officers had was proceeds from a criminal act. The Minister should rather focus on tracking and arresting individuals who are responsible for mass murders, particularly in Philippi, Western Cape. “We have also noted the portfolio committee on transport was presented with an undertaking by the transport department that action will be taken against the officers. We take a dim view towards this undertaking as we view it to be a prosecution of our members outside disciplinary mechanisms which are in place at the City of Ekurhuleni,” Mavhunda added. “The two officers have our undivided support as we believe they have not committed any crime. These are individuals who recently graduated from the EMPD academy, and were happy to have received their salaries which they have worked for. Samwu will not promote any criminality, but we will equally not fold our arms while our members are prosecuted on the basis of perception and speculation. “We will therefore be demanding that the City bring to a halt this crusade they have embarked on of systematically targeting workers for no apparent reason. Currently the EMPD has over 200 suspensions but workers have not been formally charged because there is no evidence of wrongdoing.” Kgasago said the metro police would attend to the Samwu allegations in due course. Read original story on kemptonexpress.co.za