This will make the country the first in Africa to downgrade cannabis from a Schedule 7 banned substance to a Schedule 6 prescription drug, Springs Advertiser reports.Dr Shaquir Salduker, board member of the Psychiatry Management Group says he believes the proposed legislation requires review and thorough research, which to date has not been done. Easing the laws to allow medical research and discovery is a good idea, but releasing it for general consumption opens the door to possible abuse, he says.He adds that a report released in 2013 by the SA Community Epidemiology Network on Drug Use suggests that one in 10 people in SA have an addiction problem involving cannabis and alcohol, the most commonly abused drugs. Although there are some studies indicating cannabis is as effective as existing painkillers and does have some effect on nausea, appetite stimulation, anxiety and seizures, there are to date no landmark studies into its role in pain management that would make it a revolutionary agent in pain control. The trends in the countries that have legalised (cannabis) have led to fraudulent prescriptions and ultimately become an epidemic of abuse, especially among those younger than 18. Salduker points out that there are potentially many benefits that will arise from cannabis research, but there has to be a clear message put out that it s not the same as the substance that is being smoked, eaten, vaporised or brewed in teas. The danger is that if it s being used medicinally, we have no idea of what dose is being administered and what the potential side-effects are. Changes can occur in: blood pressure, pulse rate, paranoia, extreme anxiety, and panic attacks, to name but a few. There seems to be a belief that if the oil is used, it s medicinal as compared to smoking the weed. We also don t know much about its interactions with chronic medications, so until it hasn t been properly researched, sub-types isolated, cleaned up and safety assured, it cannot be handed out willy-nilly and promoted as a naturalistic or homeopathic treatment, Salduker says.He adds that excessive use of cannabis has dire consequences not only in terms of developing schizophrenia-like illnesses, which may require lifelong treatment of the disorder, but can also lead to the deterioration of existing mental disorders. Cannabis can provoke relapses in bipolar disorder and can cause chronic amotivational syndrome in long-term users. Research has shown that use among teens younger than 18 impacts higher brain function called cognition, which is essentially learning, memory, concentration and intellectual development, as well as motivation. I fear that if the misperception gets entrenched, we are going to possibly have an entire generation of brain damaged adults before the penny drops. Salduker says cannabis is a common form of self-medication, like alcohol and codeine.Due to its temporary effect on anxiety and sense of mood elevation, it can become quite habit-forming for patients suffering from mental illnesses. The historic pattern has been that youngsters start with alcohol and then cannabis and as time goes on they lose the meaning of banned substance or illegal and start to see all drugs as having some good , which can lead them to harder and life-destructive drugs, Salduker concludes.A Springs Advertiser reader had this to say: All of a sudden so many young people are going to be sick . Caxton News ServiceRead original story on springsadvertiser.co.za