In a statement released on Monday morning, political party Front National s spokesperson said their white-advocacy party would be approaching Britain s foreign and Commonwealth affairs secretary, Boris Johnson, for help.They also addressed their plea to MP Tobias Ellwood, who deals with Middle Eastern and African affairs. They want Dame Judith Macgregor, the high commissioner for Britain to South Africa, to set up an urgent meeting to deal with attacks on white farmers in South Africa.After reports emerged of a 64-year-old British woman, Susan Howarth, who was tortured and killed in Dullstroom, the party wants to set up a meeting with Johnson in London to provide the British Government with details of the situation facing the agricultural community in South Africa . With South Africa being one of the 52 member states of the British Commonwealth of Nations, we call on the British Government and the member states to investigate this concerning state of affairs and to consider suitable action in response. In their full statement, spokesperson JD L tter said: It has been widely reported in the published, social and broadcasting media over the weekend of the gruesome torture and death of the late Mrs Susan Howarth (64), formerly of Southsea in Hampshire. Mrs Howarth and her husband, Robert Lynn (66) were attacked on their smallholding near Dullstroom in northeast South Africa on Sunday 19 February at 3am. After being tortured for hours, including severe beatings, emotional torture, hands being tied up, burned with a blowtorch and eventually shot and dropped off in a ditch by the road, Mrs Howarth suffered two more days of agony before she passed away on Tuesday. L tter said that there had been as many as 30 similar attacks in February alone.He alleged that the South African government was showing no interest in dealing with the problem. When, however, last week the leader of a minority party in Parliament, Dr Pieter Groenewald of the Freedom Front Plus, approached the Speaker of the South African Parliament with an urgent request that this matter be put on the Parliamentary agenda, he was flatly turned down. The South African government does not regard the brutal massacre of people on farms and smallholdings, which is on a rapid increase, as sufficient reason for a debate. Front National is a political party formed in late 2013 that contested the 2014 national elections. It promotes secession and Afrikaner self-determination. It says it strikes no distinction between English-speaking whites and Afrikaners. Caxton News ServiceRead original story on citizen.co.za